.TH "ascript LC" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript LC

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBargot	from	task\fR
LC	direct parameter	In var LC the translation store.
.TE

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBvar	type\fR
LC	byte
LC_ALL	byte
LC_ADDRESS	byte
LC_COLLATE	byte
LC_CTYPE	byte
LC_DOMAIN_DIR	byte
LC_DOMAIN_NAME	byte
LC_IDENTIFICATION	byte
LC_MEASUREMENT	byte
LC_MESSAGES	byte
LC_MONETARY	byte
LC_NAME	byte
LC_NUMERIC	byte
LC_PAPER	byte
LC_TELEPHONE	byte
LC_TIME	byte
.TE

.SH VAR DEFAULTS
.EX
.in -8
.TS
box;
ll.
LC_DOMAIN_DIR	The directory /usr/share/locale is set.
LC_DOMAIN_NAME	The script    file name         is set.
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.ta T 8n
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	io,
LC		``
target origin	LC_DOMAIN_DIR	`/tmp/local-test\\0`,=
#target origin	LC_DOMAIN_NAME	`hello\\0`,=
#target origin	LC_ALL		`de_DE.utf8\\0`,=
target origin	LC_ALL		`es_ES.utf8\\0`,=

LC		`Hello world\\0`
out		LC
\fR
.in

.SH COMPILED MESSAGE CATALOGS
.EX
The  file   /tmp/locale-test/de/LC_MESSAGES/hello.mo
the  file   /tmp/locale-test/es/LC_MESSAGES/hello.mo
the  proper compiled message object
must exist.

.SH XGETTEXT
.EX
The  software project gettext   program  xgettext when    installed
from ascript  the     back tick enclosed     text can  be extracted.

.SH MSGFMT
.EX
The software project gettext program msgfmt    when    installed
the PO      files,   the     message catalogs, can  be generated.

.SH PO GENERATION METHOD
.EX
By program xgettext the  text extract.
By program whatever the  *.po file edit.
By program msgfmt   the  *.mo file generated.
Somewhere  useful   such as   /usr/share/locale/*/LC_MESSAGES/
the *.mo   file     store.

.SH SUCCESS
.EX
In var LC metadata success    byte 0  is stored.
In var LC the      translated message is provided.

.SH FAILURE
.EX
In var LC metadata success      byte ENOMSG is stored.
In var LC the      untranslated message     is provided.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript  was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; get text was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 bindtextdomain
man 3 gettext
man 3 setlocale
man 3 textdomain
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
