.TH "ascript syslog" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript syslog

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	make	type	use\fR
syslog	syslog	byte	message output var make.
syslog pathname	syslog.pathname	byte	var make
syslog pipe	syslog.pipe	dub	var make.
syslog self	syslog.self	byte	var make.
syslog init			syslog daemon start.
.TE
.in

.SH FACILITY SELECTION ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
l.
LOG_AUTH
LOG_AUTHPRIV
LOG_CRON
LOG_DAEMON
LOG_FTP
LOG_KERN
LOG_LPR
LOG_MAIL
LOG_NEWS
LOG_SYSLOG
LOG_USER
LOG_UUCP
.TE
.in

.SH URGENCY SELECTION ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
l.
LOG_EMERG
LOG_ALERT
LOG_CRIT
LOG_ERR
LOG_WARNING
LOG_NOTICE
LOG_INFO
LOG_DEBUG
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.SH DEFAULTS
.EX
LOG_INFO
LOG_USER

.SH VAR
.EX
.in -8
.TS
llll.
\fBvar	type	default	use\fR
syslog	byte		message buffer
syslog.pathname	byte	/+/boot/var/log/system/%Y%m%d	message log pathname
syslog.pipe	dub		message pipe dub
syslog.self	byte	script name	message author
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.SH EXAMPLE syslogd
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
syslog
syslog init
LOG_SYSLOG
LOG_NOTICE
target origin	syslog		`syslog started`,=,!
\fR
.in

.SH VAR syslog OPERATORS
.EX
All type byte operators are supported.
.in -8
.TS
box;
lll.
not	!	The message    is sent.
		The syslog var is emptied.
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.SH TERSE
.EX
A fully RFC compliant system message log program is NOT provided.
A  semi     compliant to     file    log method  is     provided.

.SH ARGOT syslog init
.EX
A       terminal disconnected
progeny process  called  syslogd is created.

.SH ARGOT syslog pathname
.EX
The var   syslog.pathname is created.
By  argot syslog init
the var   syslog.pathname is used.

.SH ARGOT syslog pipe
.EX
The var syslog.pipe is created.
By  var syslog.pipe a  pipe write dub is provided.

.SH KERNEL LOGGER
.EX
The kernel ring buffer is read.

.SH SYSTEM LOGGER
.EX
The  socket /dev/log is  created.
From socket /dev/log the messages are received.

.SH WHEN
.EX
A   POSIX during boot
the file  system aft mounting
the       system log daemon   is  typically started.
Until     start  log messages are lost.

.SH PID
.EX
The  argot syslog init aft invocation
from argot sire
the        syslogd PID
can  be    acquired.

.SH ERRORS
.EX
A   message when   sent
an  error   when   present
in  var     syslog metadata as success
the errno   value           is stored.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript        was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   syslog was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript klog
man 3 ascript syslog
man 3 strftime
man 3 syslog
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
