.TH "ascript yay" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript yay

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
.TS
lllll.
\fB
argot   	target	origin	require	test
\fR

target fstat				fstat and skip.
target lstat				lstat and skip.
target stat				 stat and skip.

origin fstat				fstat and skip.
origin lstat				lstat and skip.
origin stat				 stat and skip.

yay block	target		fls 	type block
yay char 	target		fls	type char
yay dir  	target		fls	type dir
yay empty	target		fls	size zero
yay exe  	target			can       be  executed
yay fifo 	target		fls	type fifo
yay file 	target		fls 	type file
yay gid  	target	origin	fls	gid  match
yay link 	target		fls	st_nlink  >   1
yay modified	target		fls 	st_mtim   >   st_atim
yay newer	target	origin	fls	st_mtim   >   st_mtim
yay node	target			node exists
yay older	target	origin	fls 	st_mtim   <   st_mtim
yay read 	target			can       be  read
yay same 	target	origin	fls	st_ino    ==  st_ino
        				st_dev    ==  st_dev
yay sgid 	target		fls	sgid      set
yay size less	target	origin	fls	st_size   <   st_size
yay size more	target	origin	fls	st_size   >   st_size
yay size same	target	origin	fls	st_size   ==  st_size
yay sticky	target		fls	sticky    set
yay suid 	target		fls	suid      set
yay socket	target		fls	type socket
yay symlink	target		fls	type symlink
yay tty  	target			type tty
yay uid  	target	origin	fls 	uid  match
yay write	target			can       be  written

yay exe give	target			O_CLOEXEC    is not set
yay exe keep	target			O_CLOEXEC    is     set
yay use rush	target			O_NONBLOCK   is     set
yay use wait	target			O_NONBLOCK   is not set

nay block	target		fls 	not  type block
nay char	target		fls 	not  type char
nay dir 	target		fls 	not  type dir
nay empty	target		fls	not  size zero
nay exe 	target			can  not  be  executed
nay fifo	target		fls	not  type fifo
nay file	target		fls	not  type file
nay gid 	target	origin	fls	gid  does not match
nay link	target		fls	st_nlink  ==  1
nay modified	target		fls	st_mtim   <=  st_atim
nay newer	target	origin	fls	st_mtim   <=  st_mtim
nay node	target			node does not exists
nay node	target		fls	does not      exist
nay older	target	origin	fls	st_mtim   >=  st_mtim
nay read	target		fls	can  not  be  read
nay same	target	origin	fls	st_ino    !=  st_ino or
        				st_dev    !=  st_dev
nay sgid	target		fls	sgid      not set
nay size less	target	origin	fls	st_size   >=  st_size
nay size more	target	origin	fls	st_size   <=  st_size
nay size same	target	origin	fls	st_size   !=  st_size
nay sticky	target		fls	sticky    not set
nay suid	target		fls	suid      not set
nay socket	target		fls	not  type socket
nay symlink	target		fls	not  type symlink
nay tty 	target			not  type tty
nay uid 	target	origin	fls	uid  does not match
nay write	target		fls	can  not  be  written

node type go	target		fls	To label go.
node type pin	target		fls	At label pin.
.TE
.in

.SH fls
.EX
In  the   require column the  value   fls when present
the fstat lstat   or     stat information is   required.

.SH TERSE
.EX
File system   node stat   information                     is compared.
When required the  target address the origin address must be set.
When required the  stat   information                must be acquired.

.SH FSTAT WHEN?
.EX
For a     dub     stat information
the argot target fstat
the argot origin fstat
can be    invoked.

.SH LSTAT WHEN?
.EX
A   symlink       stat information when required
the argot target lstat
the argot origin lstat
can be    invoked.

.SH STAT WHEN?
.EX
A   pathname     stat information when required
the argot target stat
the argot origin stat
can be    invoked.

.SH IMMEDIATE VALUE
.EX
By the target address
by the origin address
an immediate value address is never compared.

.SH SKIP
.EX
The expected outcome when attained the following argot is skipped.

.SH EXAMPLE 0
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
byte
io
yay

target		`/bin/bash\\0`
target stat
go		'miss'
out now		`/bin/bash is present.\\n`
ret

\&'miss'
out now		`/bin/bash is missing.\\n`
ret
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE 1
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
int
io
yay

target		0 x
target fstat,	skip
yay tty,	go	'not'
out now		`By dub 0 a terminal is     referenced.\\n`
ret

\&'not'
out now		`By dub 0 a terminal is not referenced.\\n`
ret
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE 2
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
target		what_am_i
target lstat,	go	'miss'
nay file,		go	'file'
nay dir,		go	'dir'
nay symlink,		go	'sym'
nay fifo,		go	'fifo'
 ...
# The argot node type pin is faster.
# the argot node type go  is faster.
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE 3
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
target		`/bin/bash\\0`
target lstat
go		'miss'
yay node
ret
pin		"nodetype"
out		`node type pin completed\\n`
ret

"nodetype"
node type go
\&'block',	out	`block\\n`,	ret
\&'char',		out	`char\\n`,	ret
\&'dir',		out	`dir\\n`,	ret
\&'fifo',		out	`fifo\\n`,	ret
\&'file',		out	`file\\n`,	ret
\&'link',		out	`symlink\\n`,	ret
\&'sock',		out	`sock\\n`,	ret
\fR
.in

.SH THE ARGOT node type go
.SH THE ARGOT node type pin
.EX
A   near label with the same node type name is pinned.
The near label name possibilities follow:
'block'  'char'  'dir'  'fifo'  'file'  'link'  'sock'

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript     was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   yay was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 stat
man 3 ascript node
man 3 ascript node sub
man 3 ascript stat
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
