.TH "ascript label" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript label

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2020 copyrighted.

.SH LABEL LENGTH
.EX
 1 d byte  minimum
16 d bytes maximum.

.SH NEAR LABEL
.EX
By single quotes near labels are enclosed.

.SH FAR LABEL
.EX
By double quotes far  labels are enclosed.

.SH LINE START
.EX
By  backslash         when        not prepended
aft line feed a label when placed the location is set.

.SH AFT COMMA
.EX
Aft comma     a label when placed the location is set.

.SH LABEL REFERENCE
.EX
As an argot parameter a label when placed a reference exists.

.SH MEMBERSHIP
.EX
Aft far  label when defined
the near label that follow in
the far  group exist.

.SH NEAR LABEL NAME REUSE
.EX
Within a far group  near label names must be unique.
Among    far groups near label names can  be reused.

.SH FAR LABEL REUSE
.EX
All far labels must be unique.
The far labels can  be renamed.

.SH USE
.EX
By  argot  go
by  argot  pin
by  sever  other argot
the labels are   used.

.SH ARGOT go
.EX
A one way trip becomes.

.SH ARGOT pin
.EX
A   round      trip becomes.
The opcode ret when executed at the
aft argot  pin argot
the interpretation  continues.

.SH COMPOSITED LABEL NAMES
.EX
The  argot   tag go
the  argot   tag pin
when invoked with direct parameters from var text data
a    label   name is     composied  and  reached.

.SH EXTENDED USE
.EX
For argot err go
for argot err pin
for argot ino far
for the   event the proper label name is sought and reached.

.SH SAMPLE INOTIFY EVENT NEAR LABELS
.EX
'IN_ACCESS'
'IN_ATTRIBUTE'
'IN_CLOSE_WRITE'

.SH SAMPLE errno EVENT NEAR LABELS
.EX
'ESUCCESS'
'EANY'
'E2BIG'
'EACCESS'
'ENOENT'

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript         was created.
In 2020; by Kyle Sallee; ascript label.5 was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript loop
man 3 ascript trek
man 3 errno
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript trek
man 7 ascript
\fR
