.TH "ascript net" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2020 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	target	origin	task\fR
net hub make			The network hub
			unshared    net namespace
			make        and bind.

net hub move	`interface`		To   network   hub
			the  interface move.

net interface	type byte		By byte value 0 separated
			network interface names
			are listed.

net ns move	`pathname`	`interface`	To   network   namespace
			the  interface move.

net lower	`interface`		The interface lower.
net raise	`interface`		The interface raise.

net route default	`interface`		The default route replace.

net veth        	`name`	`peer name`	VETH pair  make.
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.TS
lll.
\fBargot	skip	errno set\fR
net hub make	on success	always
net hub move	on success	always
net ns  move	on success	always
net veth	on success	on error
net lower	on success	on error
net raise	on success	on error
net route default	on success	always
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBvar	type	default	task\fR
net.hub	byte	`/var/run/netns/hub\\0`	The      network hub
			unshared net     namespace
			pathname specify.

.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	err,	io,	net,	ipv4,	ns

target origin	net.hub		`/var/run/netns/hub.test\\0`,=
net hub make
go		'hub make fail'

## An actual net hub if used the eth0 interface is moved.
#target		`eth0`
#net  hub move
#go		'eth0 move fail'

target origin	`vetha`		`vethb`
net veth
go		'veth make fail'

target		`vethb`
net hub move
go		'vethb move fail'

target origin	`vetha`		`192.168.10.79/16`
ipv4 local set
go		'vetha local fail'

target		`vetha`
net raise
go		'vetha raise fail'

## The inane tacitly created route explicitly delete.
target		`192.168.0.0/16`
ipv4 route del
next

## The vethb's address to reach vetha follow.
target origin	`192.168.10.80`	`vetha`
ipv4 route set
go		'vetha route fail'

call
ns save net
target		`/var/run/netns/hub.spare`
ns old  net
go		'hub entry fail'

target origin	`vethb`		`192.168.10.80/16`
ipv4 local set
go		'vethb local fail'

target		`vethb`
net  raise
go		'vethb raise fail'

## The inane tacitly created route explicitly delete.
target		`192.168.0.0/16`
ipv4 route del
next

## The vetha's address to reach vethb follow.
target		`192.168.10.79`	`vethb`
ipv4 route set
go		'vethb route fail'

target		`192.168.10.79`
ipv4 route default
go		'gateway fail'

#target		`eth0`
#net route default
#go		'gateway fail'

ret
# The saved net name space is restored.
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	io,	net,	ns
name		IF,		byte
origin		`/etc/net/host/interface`
io load,						go	'IF load fail'
net hub make,						next
call,		ns save net
target		IF,		net hub   move,		go	'IF move fail'
target		net.hub,	ns  old   net,		go	'hub entry fail'
target		IF,		net route default,	go	'gateway fail'
ret
# The saved net name space is restored.
\fR
.in

.SH INTERFACE NAMES
.EX
2   to  16    bytes exist.
For the final byte
the value   0 must  exist.

.SH THE DEFAULT ROUTE
.EX
An  interface name  when    sufficient
the argot net route default suffices.

An  Internet protocol address when required
the argot ipv4 route default
the argot ipv6 route default suffice.

.SH REALFS
.EX
For each realFS  a   VETH pair should exist.
In  the  realFS  one VETH      should exist.
In  the  net hub one VETH      should exist.
In  the  net hub one interface should exist.
A        spoked      wheel     imagine.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript     was created.
In 2020; by Kyle Sallee; argot   net was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 1 ip
man 3 ascript ipv4
man 3 ascript net hub make
man 3 ascript net hub move
man 3 ascript net ns move
man 3 ascript net veth
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
