.TH "ascript kvp" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript kvp

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH ARGOT kvp SYNOPSIS
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	make	task\fR
kvp	*	Key value pair storage var make.
	*.ambit
	*.key
	*.key.all
	*.val
	*.val.all
.TE

.TS
llll.
\fBargot	target	origin	task\fR
kvp with	type kvp		The type kvp var select.
kvp del	key		The key          delete.
kvp inv			The key      val invert.
kvp new	key	val	New key      val create.
kvp set	key	val	For key  the val replace.

.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH VAR TABLE
.EX
.in -8
.TS
box;
llll.
\fBvar	compat	byte size	use\fR
*.ambit 	byte	   1000 x  	Key  and val separator  sequence set.
*.key   	byte	 200000 x	When assigned *.val is  updated.
*.key.all	byte	2000000 x	All  key sequences  are provided.
*.val   	byte	 200000 x	When assigned *.key is  updated.
*.val.all	byte	2000000 x	All  val sequences  are provided.
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.SH *.key and *.val OPERATORS
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
.TS
box;
lll.
equal	\&=	*.key if set *.val is updated.
		*.val if set *.key is updated.
.TE

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io
name		A,	kvp,	scope,		kvp with
target origin	`Ichigo`	`son`,		kvp new
target origin	`Yuzu`		`daughter`,	kvp new
target origin	`Karin`		`daughter`,	kvp new
target origin	`Isshin`	`father`,	kvp new
target origin	`Masaki`	`mother`,	kvp new
target origin	A.ambit		`\\n`,=
out		A.key.all	`\\n`
out		A.val.all	`\\n`
target origin	A.val	`son`,=,	out	`son=`		A.key	`\\n`
target origin	A.key	`Isshin`,=,	out	`Isshin=`	A.val	`\\n`
\fR
.in

.SH AMBIT DEFAULT
.EX
1 value 0 byte

.SH VAR *.key.all
.EX
To each key the *.ambit byte sequence is appended.

.SH VAR *.valall
.EX
To each val the *.ambit byte sequence is appended.

.SH ARGOT kvp with
.EX
The current kvp var  address is saved.
The new     kvp var  address is selected.
The opcode  ret when executed
the saved   kvp var  address is selected.

.SH KVP SYSTEMS
.EX
The file  system is slow and persistent.
The argot kvp    is fast and temporary.
The argot link   is fast and temporary.

.SH APPEND
.EX
An existing val when appending the *.ambit sequence
is not      tacitly  appended.

.SH VAR *.key WITH ARGOT equal
.EX
The key if not located in *.key metadata for success ENOENT is set.

.SH VAR *.val WITH ARGOT equal
.EX
The val if not located in *.val metadata for success ENOENT is set.

.SH VAR *.val EDITING
.EX
To a type  byte var the *.val content copy.
The  type  byte var edit.
The  argot kvp set  invoke.

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
Same named keys do    not become.
Same named vals could     become.
Inversion  is   inane.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript     was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   kvp was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript kvp
man 3 ascript link
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
