.TH "ascript tutorial 8" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript tutorial 8

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH LINE SORTING
.EX
The manual page "ascript sort.3" please gloss.

.SH SORTING
.EX
Key sorting and numeric sorting while not supported
By  ASCII   value       sorting
and various selection   methods are       supported.

.SH PCRE2
.EX
The manual page "ascript pcre2.3" please gloss.

.SH REGULAR EXPRESSION SUPPORT
.EX
The ascript software project when compiled
the pcre2   library          if   installed
the argot   pcre2            was  created.

.SH ASCRIPT AND REGULAR EXPRESSION
.EX
Ascript argot do  not do   regular expression.
The     pcre2 library does regular expression.
To the  pcre2 library such tasks   are delegated.

.SH AN ARGOT regex WHY NOT CREATE?
.EX
300 baud analog modem  line noise is  loathed.
300 baud analog modem  line noise and regular expression seem similar.
For a    months effort and  duration  the     libpcre2   performance
can probably    not be exceeded.  Why even    try?

.SH MORE DATA MASTICATION
.EX
For argot byte
for argot line
for argot view
the manual pages please gloss.

.SH CONCLUSION
.EX
Byte sequences to locate and masticate many methods exist.
Even more methods can be created.  Correct methods do not exist.
Slow methods exist.  Kyle's methods exist.
Choose and lose.     Kyle's methods if chosen duration is lost.

.SH ANY LIBRARY INTERFACE
.EX
Any ELF library           by ascript argot can be linked.
For ELF library functions an ascript argot
an  interface                              can be provided.

.SH IDEAL USE
.EX
For boot shutdown and software  installation tasks ascript is ideal.
For audio, video, and video games production tasks ascript    sucks!
Any ELF  library  use since possible
for ascript more  uses      can   be surmised.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; ascript tutorial 8.5 was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript tutorial 9
man 7 ascript
\fR
