.TH "ascript io load" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript io load

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	target	origin	direct\fR
io load	var	dub     	optional byte amount
io load	var	pathname	optional byte amount
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.SH SKIP
.EX
An error when NOT encountered the next  argot is skipped.
An error if       encountered the errno value is set.

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io
name	A,	byte,	scope
target origin	A	`/tmp/a\\0`,	io load,	go	'fail'
       origin		`/tmp/b\\0`,	io load,	go	'fail'
out		A	`\\nwas acquired.`
\fR
.in

.SH PROGRAM cat SIMILAR EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io
target origin	out	`/tmp/a\\0`,	io load,	go	'fail'
       origin		`/tmp/b\\0`,	io load,	go	'fail'
!
\fR
.in

.SH BYTE AMOUNT
.EX
As  an optional parameter
the    required byte amount
can be provided.

.SH FILE START NOT REQUIRED?
.EX
A    type dub var when provided
from the  dub current  position
the  data is  acquired.

.SH BLOCKING CAVEAT
.EX
From      FIFO   from pipe from socket from terminal
blocking  when   enabled
the       data   until acquired
the       script interpretation pauses.

.SH TERMINAL CAVEAT
.EX
Many lines      when available or
the  first line when available
is   acquired.

.SH TERMINAL COOK RAW CAVEAT
.EX
From cooked terminals lines are acquired.
From raw    terminals bytes are acquired.

.SH GROWTH
.EX
The available data
the requested data
to  contain
the var       text map tacitly expands.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript         was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   io load was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript io
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
