.TH "ascript rlimit" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript rlimit

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lll.
\fBvar	request	use\fR
max.as   	RLIMIT_AS	address space
now.as   	RLIMIT_AS
max.core 	RLIMIT_CORE	core file size
now.core 	RLIMIT_CORE
max.cpu  	RLIMIT_CPU	cpu seconds
now.cpu  	RLIMIT_CPU
max.data 	RLIMIT_DATA	BSS max
now.data 	RLIMIT_DATA
max.fsize	RLIMIT_FSIZE	file size
now.fsize	RLIMIT_FSIZE
max.locks	RLIMIT_LOCKS	flocks
now.locks	RLIMIT_LOCKS
max.memlock	RLIMIT_MEMLOCK	locked RAM bytes
now.memlock	RLIMIT_MEMLOCK
max.msgqueue	RLIMIT_MSGQUEUE	message queue bytes
now.msgqueue	RLIMIT_MSGQUEUE
max.nice 	RLIMIT_NICE	priority
now.nice 	RLIMIT_NICE
max.nofile	RLIMIT_NOFILE	available dubs
now.nofile	RLIMIT_NOFILE
max.nproc	RLIMIT_NPROC	process/threads
now.nproc	RLIMIT_NPROC
max.rss  	RLIMIT_RSS	resident size
now.rss  	RLIMIT_RSS
max.rtprio	RLIMIT_RTPRIO	real-time priority
now.rtprio	RLIMIT_RTPRIO
max.rttime	RLIMIT_RTTIME	real-time microsec
now.rttime	RLIMIT_RTTIME
max.sigpending	RLIMIT_SIGPENDING	signal queue
now.sigpending	RLIMIT_SIGPENDING
max.stack	RLIMIT_STACK	stack size
now.stack	RLIMIT_STACK
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.SH REVALUE
.EX
The var value when accessed the limit is acquired.

.SH REVISION
.EX
The var value when revised  the limit is revised.

.SH OUTCOME
.EX
In  var   metadata
as  the   success     byte
the errno value    is stored.

.SH VALUE -1
.EX
Except max.nice
except now.nice
by     value -1
unlimited    is implied.

.SH EXAMPLE 0
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
rlimit
target origin	now.nofile	max.nofile,=
\fR
.in

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript        was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   rlimit was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 setrlimit
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
