.TH "ascript head" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript head

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH NEVER INSTALL!
.EX
The head/ dir content must not be installed.

.SH INCLUDE
.EX
In  self      authored argot as required
the following line           is anticipated.
#include	"ascript.h"

.SH FILE ascript.h
.EX
By  file ascript.h when inlined
the data structures
the Gz   address
and the  many inline functions are acquired.

.SH INLINE FUNCTION USE
.EX
An  argot  opcode    sequence   for completion
the inline function  argot_next is  commonly invoked.
The other  functions cautiously use.

.SH UNDOCUMENTED API
.EX
The inline function  names and tasks      are not listed.
An  argot  to author many      argot must be      read.
The inline function  names and tasks      become  apparent.

.SH THE INLINE FUNCTIONS WHY NOT DOCUMENT?
.EX
It's not a library!
For  convenience the inline functions are provided.
To   mitigate mistakes redundant code was factored out.
An   argot    afore    authorship
how  ascript  works    must be comprehended.

.SH SHARED LIBRARY AUTHORSHIP PRIOR EXPERIENCE WAS ATTAINED?
.EX
Great, that prior experience will not be useful!
Argot  entirely  differ.
The    command   nm -S
the    command   objdump -x
on     an        argot ELFSO
and    some      obvious differences
can    be        realized.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
