.TH "ascript tutorial 9" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript tutorial 9

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH CLONE
.EX
The ascript process can     be   cloned,
but the     memory  can not be   shared.
The best    performance     to   attain
the least   useful  boons   were abstained.

.SH THE CHICKEN OR THE EGG?
.EX
The progenitor process afore resume
the progeny    process start never assume!

.SH TOKE THE PIPE OR DON'T
.EX
For  inter  process     communication
on   dub 0  and dub 1   pipes can be attached.
By   dub 0  and dub 1   memory dubs when referenced
even better performance becomes.

.SH PIPES DRIP
.EX
One  byte   if  written  one byte   can  be read.
With pipes full capacity is  seldom read is seldom wrote.
The  syscall read
the  syscall write when invoked a significant duration becomes!

.SH PIPE SIZE
.EX
From 65536 bytes to 2 megabytes is typical.
By greater capacity the drip potential is not mitigated!

.SH INFINITE OUTPUT
.EX
By   a program when executed infinite output when produced
rather than argot dub mem
a pipe must be used.

.SH OOM KILLER
.EX
In a dub mem too much content if contained
the  OOM, kernel out of memory process murderer,
is   solicited and the process immediately ends.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; ascript tutorial 9.5 was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript tutorial a
man 7 ascript
\fR
