.TH "ascript io log" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript io log

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make	use\fR
io log	byte	*.log	buffered output
.TE
.TA
.ta T 8n

.SH IO log EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
dub
io

name	can
byte
scope
dub file
io log
target origin	can.dub		`/tmp/throne.txt\\0`
O_CREAT,	O_TRUNC,	O_WRONLY,@,		go	'fail open'
target origin	can.log		can.dub,=
target		can,		success,		go	'fail dup'
origin		`Down load? Log out?`,+,!
				success,		go	'fail write'
 ...
\fR
.in

.SH LOG ENHANCED TYPE BYTE ADDITIONAL OPERATOR
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
.TS
box;
lll.
not	!	Sans delay; write now.
.TE
.in

.SH TYPE IO log OPERATOR
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
.TS
box;
lll.
equal	\&=	The host dub value is duped.
		The log  dub value is set.
.TE
.in

.SH FAILURE
.EX
For *.log the value -1 is set  and errno is set and
in  host  metadata  as success the errno is saved.

.SH ARGOT io log TYPE byte VAR ENHANCEMENT
.EX
More space when required
to   the   dub
the  var   data
is   sent.

.SH ERRNO
.EX
The function write when invoked an error   if  encountered
in  the host var   metadata     as success the errno value is saved.

.SH FLUSH
.EX
To the dub the data when sent from the host var is removed.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript        was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; argot   io log was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript io
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
