.TH "ascript tutorial 7" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript tutorial 7

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH FUNCTIONS PROCEDURES SUBROUTINES WHATEVER
.EX
For functions for procedures for subroutines the opcode does not exist.

.SH IN ASCRIPT ... DOES NOT EXIST
.EX
Something the computer does not even require why create?
To require script hackers to type more nonsense such as:
"if" "then" "else" "fi" "function" is that a good idea?

.SH POSITIONAL PARAMETERS
.EX
* language similar functions since                     not implemented
* language similar function  positional parameters are not implemented.

.SH TREND
.EX
Is     the trend  noticed?
Complexity rather than add by ascript
complexity is          sub.
Better     performance results.

.SH PROCESS PARAMETERS
.EX
Process   parameters                do   exist!
By  argot self the argot  self argv is   hosted.
The argot                 self argv when invoked
a   type  ray  var called self.argv is   created.

.SH DEFY EXPECTATION!
.EX
The argot self dir set when invoked the present work directory is set.
The argot chdir also exists.  In    different   scenarios each is better.
The C language function similar names while ick
as  a rule     are  not abstained are not sustained.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; ascript tutorial 7.5 was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript tutorial 8
man 7 ascript
\fR
