.TH "ascript link" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript link

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2020 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lllll.
\fBargot name	target	origin	skip	task\fR
link    				The argot   host.
link join	var	var		Two lists   link.
link make	var	var		To  list    the  origin link.
link sans	var	var	skip	Is  member  link and    skip.
link with	var	var	skip	Is  member  link or     skip.

link back	var		skip	The earlier link select.
link next	var		skip	The next    link select.

link head	var			The start   link select.
link head set	var			The start   link set.

link tail	var			The end     link select.

link omit  	var		skip	The         link remove.

link omit back	var		skip	The         link remove.
        				The earlier link select.

link omit next	var		skip	The         link remove.
        				The next    link select.
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.SH ON SUCCESS THE NEXT ARGOT IS SKIPPED.
.EX
link sans
link with

.SH THE LINK HEAD WHEN NOT SELECTED THE NEXT ARGOT SKIP.
.EX
link back
link next

.SH A SINGLE LINK CHAIN WHEN NOT CREATED THE NEXT ARGOT IS SKIPPED.
.EX
link omit
link omit back
link omit next

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	io,	link
name		A,	byte,	scope,	set	`apple`
name		B,	byte,	scope,	set	`banana`
name		C,	byte,	scope,	set	`cherry`
name		D,	byte,	scope,	set	`date`

target		A
origin		D,	link make
origin		C,	link make
origin		B,	link make

out			`Yesterday:\\n`,+
target		out	A

\&'again'
byte line
target origin swap,	link next,	ret
target origin swap,	go	'again'
\fR
.in

.SH WHAT IS LINK?
.EX
A    thrice linked circular list,
like a      wheel
is   possible.

.SH SINGLE MEMBERSHIP ONLY
.EX
In more than one linked list
a  var  can  not concurrently participate.

.SH LIST LIMIT
.EX
As many named var as created can be linked.

.SH LINKABLES
.EX
A named  var                         can     be linked.
A value,           such as  0 d,     can NOT be linked.
A byte   sequence, such as  `Hello`, can not be linked.

.SH HARD AND SYM LINKS
.EX
In  file  systems hard and sym links exist.
The argot link    differs.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2020; by Kyle Sallee; argot   link was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript node
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
