.TH "ascript line part" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript line part

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH BACKSLASH LINE FEED
.EX
By backslash a line feed when  prepended
on the  next   line the  argot parameters continue.

.SH COMMENT
.EX
Aft # when not enclosed until line feed a comment exists.

.SH LINE START
.EX
Aft line feed
an  argot
a   comment or
a   label   exists.

.SH AFT COMMA
.EX
Aft comma
an  argot
a   comment or
a   label   exists.

.SH COMMA AND LINE FEED
.EX
In  ascript grammar
for comma   and
for line feed
a   similar meaning exists.

.SH TAB
.EX
By  tab
an  argot name       and
the argot parameters are separated.

.SH ARGOT NAMES
.EX
In  an    argot name no more than 16 bytes exist.
The space and   tab               do not   exist.

.SH SPACE
.EX
In argot names the space is  ignored.
In var   names the space is  sustained.
To values      the space and base indicator are appended.

.SH ARGOT NAME WITH SPACE EXAMPLE
.EX
The argot target origin
the argot targetorigin
are the   same.

.SH VALUE EXAMPLE
.EX
By 40 o  the value 40 octal  is  indicated.
By 32 d  the value 32 denary is  indicated.
By 20 x  the value 20 denhex is  indicated.
   20 x  32 d  40 o   values are identical.

.SH WHY COMMA?
.EX
From comma   use
from tab     use
an   ascript script       fragment
can  look    beautiful or confusing.

.SH WHY TABS?
.EX
In  columns when   aligned
var name    typos
are more    easily realized.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript grammar
man 7 ascript
\fR
