.TH "ascript node want" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript node want

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.SH FROM TARGET VAR ADDRESS ACQUISITION
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	target	type\fR
node want dub	var	dub
node want name	var	byte
node want amount	var	int 8
node want offset	var	int 8
.TE

.SH ADVICE SELECTION ARGOT
.EX
.TS
l.
node want dont need
node want no reuse
node want normal
node want random
node want sequent
node want will need
.TE

.SH ACTION ARGOT
.EX
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBargot	task\fR
node want give	Advice  give.
node want read	Content read.
node want drop	Cache   drop.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH ARGOT node want
.EX
The  current  associate addresses are  saved.
The  defaults assocaite addresses are  set.
The  opcode   ret                 when executed
the  saved    associate addresses are  restored.

.SH MUTUALLY EXCLUSIVE
.EX
The argot node want dub
the argot node want name
by  one   or   the  other
the node  is   selected.

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
By the kernel the argot node want give is often  ignored.
By the kernel the argot node want read is always obeyed.

.SH PERFORMANCE
.EX
By   the kernel
for  the cache
all  available   RAM
when consumed
the  performance tanks.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript           was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   node want was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
less  /usr/src/linux/Documentation/sysctl/vm.txt
man 1 ascript
man 2 open
man 2 posix_fadvise
man 3 ascript node
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
