.TH "ascript ansi" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript ansi

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED VAR
.SH CURSOR MOVEMENT
.EX
.TS
ll.
ansi.up 	up.
ansi.down	down.
ansi.fore	right.
ansi.back	left.

ansi.home	Cursor to 0,0 set.
ansi.save	Cursor position save.
ansi.load	Cursor position restored.
.TE

.SH BLANK AND CLEAR
.TS
ll.
ansi.blank	To line end    clear.
ansi.clear	Entire  screen clear.
.TE

.SH FONT OR COLOR SELECT
.EX
.TS
l.
ansi.normal
ansi.blink
ansi.bold
ansi.conceal
ansi.reverse
ansi.underscore
.TE

.SH FOREGROUND COLOR SELECT
.EX
.TS
l.
ansi.fore.black
ansi.fore.red
ansi.fore.green
ansi.fore.yellow
ansi.fore.blue
ansi.fore.magenta
ansi.fore.cyan
ansi.fore.white
.TE

.SH BACKGROUND COLOR SELECT
.EX
.TS
l.
ansi.back.black
ansi.back.red
ansi.back.green
ansi.back.yellow
ansi.back.blue
ansi.back.magenta
ansi.back.cyan
ansi.back.white
.TE
.TA
.ta T 8n

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
For ANSI codes
the documentation and
the implementations
do  not  concur.

Some codes will not work.

The      ansi.clear var when interpreted
the      cursor     position to 0,0
probably does       not change.

.SH ALTERNATIVE
.EX
VT-100   terminal escape   codes
are      ANSI     backward compatible.
Terminal escape   codes    when known
can   be directly entered.

.SH ANSI BYTE SEQUENCE EXAMPLES
.EX
By `\\U+00001b` the escape byte value is substituted.
By `\\U+00001b[2J\\U+00001b[H`
the display
is  cleared
the cursor  to 0,0 is set.

.SH ZYGOTE RATHER THAN ARGOT
.EX
By  a zygote  the   color code var if created
fewer opcodes might execute.

.SH THE NCURSES LIBRARY
.EX
A   proper  method, if    one ever existed,
the ncurses library could be       linked.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2020; by Kyle Sallee; argot   ansi was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
lynx  http://ascii-table.com/ansi-escape-sequences.php
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript io
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
