.TH "ascript noob errors" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript noob errors

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH SCRIPT FILE MUST BE EXECUTABLE
.EX
For script file  execution   mode  0755 would    suffice.
At  the    shell the command chmod 0755 filename if invoked
for the    node  the         mode  0755 would    be set.

.SH SCRIPT CONTENT MUST BEGIN WITH MAGIC
.EX
#!/bin/ascript
#!/bin64/ascript
For the script first line either of the above would commonly exist.
By  the magic  the interpreter pathfile name  is    specified.

.SH THE ASCRIPT ARGOT LOCATION MUST BE KNOWN
.SH IF INSTALLED
.EX
A file such as: /lib64/libascript.so.2020.01
a dir  such as: /lib64/libascript.2020.01/
would  exist.

.SH IF NOT INSTALLED
.EX
In  the  BASH shell     by  export LD_LIBRARY_PATH
the container directory can be set.

.SH AFT COMPILATION
.EX
In the ascript source tree aft compilation
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$PWD/lib
should suffice.

.SH MORE VERBOSE
.EX
The argot segfault if loaded
a         segfault if solicited
more verbose information can be provided.

.SH THE SCRIPT SEGFAULTS
.EX
On   the      script   second        line
the  argot    segfault        if     present
a    segfault verbose  report if not provided
then argot    segfault never         loaded.

.SH ASCRIPT ARGOT CAN NOT BE LOCATED
.EX
The ELF     library     such as libascript.so.2020.01 if not located
the ascript interpreter when invoked a segfault becomes.
The script  filename if incorrect
the ascript interpreter when invoked a segfault becomes.

.SH THE ARGOT SEGFAULT LOADED, AND THE LINE WAS DISPLAYED
.EX
On  the line   did a number    exists?
For the number was a space and base suffix provided?
It  not then a var   name  was assumed.

.SH LESS FORGIVING
.EX
With the   C language as compared
the  ascript language is less forgiving.
A  var   name if typoed
an argot name if typoed
a  segfault   is probable.

.SH CAN TRACE
.EX
Sans program gdb, the GNU debugger,
with argot   trace
most ascript scripts can be traced.

.SH TRACE EXCEPTIONS
.EX
Signal   handling can not be traced.
A trace is seldom gracefully discontinued.

.SH PATH
.EX
By  the environment variable   called PATH
the dirs containing executable files are colon  separated listed.
The current working directory        is  seldom contained.

.SH CURRENT WORKING DIRECTORY SCRIPT FILENAME EXECUTION
.EX
With the    BASH shell in the current working directory
the  script filename   called test01  to      execute
./test01 optional_parameter2 optional_parameter3
the above line would be typed.

.SH NEW TO SCRIPT LANGUAGES?
.EX
To  script languages such as Ascript, BASH, PERL, Python if new
for assistance a script hacker can be asked.

.SH LIMITED PERSPECTIVE
.EX
On   ancient   20th century computers,
a    Commodore 64   and
a    Tandy     1000 SX,
Kyle Sallee self trained.
Many noob   questions and problems will not be surmised.
Ask  others first.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript debug
man 7 ascript
\fR
