.TH "ascript dub mem" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript dub mem

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make	task\fR
dub mem 	byte	*.dub	Memory backed sub var make.
.TE
.TA
.ta T 8n

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a
dub
name		output,		byte,	scope,	dub mem
name		errput,		byte,	scope,	dub mem

target 		output.dub,	dup
target		errput.dub,	dup

call
target		1 d,		dup save
target		2 d,		dup save

target origin	output.dub.dup	1 d,=,		go	'fail'
target origin	errput.dub.dup	2 d,=,		go	'fail'

exe fast	`awesome\\0sauce\\0`,		go	'fail'
exe must	0 d,				go	'fail'
ret

target		output.dub,?
target		errput.dub,?

out		`awesome output follows\\n`	output
out		`awesome errput follows\\n`	errput
ret

'fail',	ret,	ret
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE VERBOSE
.EX
.ta T 8n
The example should not    be done.
The argot   exe    described method please use.

.SH OPERATOR
.EX
.TS
box;
lll.
query	?	In  the host var the mem  is  mapped.
		the length   and the size are set.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH FLAGS
.EX
The syscall SYS_memfd_create when invoked
the flags   MFD_CLOEXEC MFD_ALLOW_SEALING
are tacitly granted.

.SH *.dub CONTENT
.EX
The memory dub aft creation
in  *.dub
the   dub  value   exists.
The argot  at  is  not required.

.SH FAILURE
.EX
The   dub acquisition if failed
the *.dub value       -1 becomes and
errno     is set.

.SH CLOSE
.EX
The   dub if closed to   -1
the *.dub    value  must be changed.

.SH LINUX CAVEAT
.EX
The  Linux    kernel if unavailable
with the      flag      O_TMPFILE
the  function open   is invoked.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript         was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   dub mem was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 memfd_create
man 3 ascript dub
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
