.TH "ascript tutorial f" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript tutorial f

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2020 copyrighted.

.SH HOW TO NOT LEARN A HACKER LANGUAGE
.EX
Read a book from     cover     to cover and
the  hacker language will  NOT be learned!

.SH ARMCHAIR JUTSU
.EX
Armchair jutsu is the idea that from watching videos like
"Enter the Dragon" that martial arts skill will become.
This training method has never worked!
With partners in dojo from practice technique is honed.

.SH HOW TO LEARN ASCRIPT
.EX
The  ascript  scripts required to: boot; shutdown; install software
when authored and the POSIX when published
when freely   shared
the  ascript  ability will  be   attained.

.SH LIKE A COMPUTER, NOT A PERSON
.EX
In         the paydom minds that memorize and regurgitate are exalted.
Thinking   and questioning does not become.
As indisputable facts mere opinion is empowered.
Compliance is  demonstrated.

.SH LIKE A PERSON
.EX
Everything learned can be questioned,
Learned techniques can be improved.
Minds              can    create.
From    creating   skill  becomes.

.SH SEARCH ENGINE
.EX
A  paydom educated mind and a search engine are similar.
Questions can be answered.
By a search engine can computer programs be authored?  No!
A mind that can wield a search engine is clever.
A mind that is  like  a search engine is enslaved.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript              was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
