.TH "ascript rusage" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript rusage

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBargot	task\fR
rusage	The hosted var make.
.TE

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBvar	use\fR
self.utime.tv_sec	user   CPU duration
self.utime.tv_usec

self.stime.tv_sec	system CPU duration
self.stime.tv_usec

self.maxrss	KB max       resident size

self.minflt	page  faults
self.majflt	page  faults with I/O

self.inblock	block input  operation
self.outblock	block output operation

self.nvcsw	  voluntary  context switch
self.nivcsw	involuntary  context switch

kids.utime.tv_sec	user   CPU duration
kids.utime.tv_usec

kids.stime.tv_sec	system CPU duration
kids.stime.tv_usec

kids.maxrss	KB max       resident size

kids.minflt	page  faults
kids.majflt	page  faults with I/O

kids.inblock	block input  operation
kids.outblock	block output operation

kids.nvcsw	  voluntary  context switch
kids.nivcsw	involuntary  context switch
.TE

.SH ON LINUX UNAVAILABLE VAR
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBvar	use\fR
self.ixrss	KB shared    mem   size
self.idrss	KB unshared  data  size
self.isrss	KB unshared  stack size
self.nswap	swaps
self.msgsnd	IPC messages sent
self.msgrcv	IPC messages received
self.nsignals	signals      received

kids.ixrss	KB shared    mem   size
kids.idrss	KB unshared  data  size
kids.isrss	KB unshared  stack size
kids.nswap	swaps
kids.msgsnd	IPC messages sent
kids.msgrcv	IPC messages received
kids.nsignals	signals      received
.TE

.ta T 8n
.SH EXAMPLE 0
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	int,	io,	rusage,	segfault
name		self.minflt.old,	int 8
origin		self.minflt,=

out		`self.minflt	`	self.minflt.old	`\\n`	\\
		`self.minflt	`	self.minflt	`\\n`

target origin	self.minflt.old		-1 d,*
origin		self.minflt,+
out		`difference	`	self.minflt.old	`\\n`
\fR
.in

.SH VALUE
.EX
The var when accessed the value is acquired.

.SH VAR *.tv_usec
.EX
For proper pairing
the var    *time.tv_usec afore  copying
the var    *time.tv_sec  please copy.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript        was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   rusage was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript rlimit
man 2 clock_getres
man 3 getrusage
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
