.TH "ascript amount" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript amount

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lllll.
\fBargot	host	sub var make	compat	task\fR
amount byte	byte	*.amount.byte	int 4	Byte  value amount.
amount utf8	byte	*.amount.utf8	int 4	UTF-8 value amount.
amount word	byte	*.amount.word	int 4	Word        amount.
.TE

.TS
lll.
\fBargot	target	origin\fR
amount byte count	*.amount.byte
amount byte reset	*.amount.byte
amount byte select	*.amount.byte	``

amount utf8 count	*.amount.utf8
amount utf8 reset	*.amount.utf8
amount utf8 select	*.amount.utf8	``

amount word count	*.amount.word
amount word reset	*.amount.word
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	amount,	io
name			A,	byte
set			`Example text.\\nCould be anything.\\nBut is this.\\n`
amount byte
amount word

target object					A.amount.byte	`\\n`
amount byte count
amount byte select
out			`The line  amount is `	A.amount.byte	`.\\n`

target object					A.amount.byte	` `
amount byte select
out			`The space amount is `	A.amount.byte	`.\\n`

target						A.amount.word
amount word count
out			`The word  amount is `	A.amount.word	`.\\n`
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE 1
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	amount,	dub,	err,	io

name		A,	byte,	scope,	amount byte,	dub file,	io map

target object	A.dub	`/tmp/data.txt\\0`,O_RDONLY,@,	go	'fail'
target object	A.map	A.dub,=
target		A,	success,			go	'fail dub'
target object	A.amount.byte	`\\n`

amount byte count
amount byte select

out	`The line amount is `	A.amount.byte	`.\\n`,	ret

\&'fail',	err now		errtext,	ret
\fR
.in

.SH ARGOT amount byte select
.EX
In target the    *.amount.byte exists.
in origin the `` enclosed byte exists.

.SH ARGOT amount utf8 select.
.EX
In target the    *.amount.byte       exists.
in origin the `` enclosed UTF-8 char exists.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript        was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   amount was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
