.TH "ascript var" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript var

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH MEMORY
.EX
The  random  access memory exists.
The  address space exist.
Into address space the RAM can be mapped.

.SH OPCODES
.EX
By the CPU opcodes can be executed.

.SH DATA
By the CPU data can not be executed.

.SH OPCODES AND DATA
.EX
In RAM opcodes can exist.
In RAM data    can exist.

.SH MEMORY PROTECTION
.EX
The protection when write   enabled the content can be changed.
The protection when read    enabled the content can be accessed.
The protection when execute enabled the content can be executed.

.SH WHERE IS VARIABLE?
.EX
In computer memory variables do not exist.
In mathematics     variables        exist.

.SH VAR
.EX
A       metadata areas are called var.
Partial metadata areas are called vless.

.SH VAR TASK VAR TYPE
.EX
RAM is generic var are not.
A var task and type are tantamount.
In all computer languages data and task are paired.
4 byte int and 8 byte int to add different opcodes must execute.

.SH VAR NAMES
.EX
In metadata for var name storage 32 bytes exist.

.SH POSITION
.EX
As  argot  direct parameters only
the var    names  and
the values can    exist.

.SH VAR NAME TO ADDRESS RESOLUTION
.EX
A var name to address for resolution
at least 8 opcodes must execute.
For the same var name multiple resolution if circumvented
better performance results.

.SH PARSER VALUE RECOGNITION
.EX
A value is not enclosed.
A value has space and a base suffix         appended.

.SH PARSER VAR RECOGNITION
.EX
A var is not enclosed.
For names a space and a base suffix are not appended.

.SH TARGET ORIGIN
.EX
Both            when setting the argot target origin invoke.
The origin only when setting the argot origin        invoke.
The target only when setting the argot target        invoke.
This way fewer opcodes must execute.

.SH SUB VAR
.EX
Per  sub var a            host var exists.
In   sub var metadata the host var address is stored.
By   sub var the          host var data    is used.

.SH SUB VAR NAME
.EX
The     sub  var name to create
to  the host var name a dot and the sub var name is appended.

.SH SUB VAR SCOPE
.EX
The host var when recycled
the sub  var are  recycled.

.SH ASSOCIATION
.EX
Per sub  var one  host var can exist.
Per host var many sub  var can exist.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript argot
man 5 ascript operator
man 5 ascript tutorial 1
man 5 ascript value
man 7 ascript
\fR
