.TH "ascript sort" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript sort

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.SH SORT METHOD
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make	first\fR
sort byte less	byte	*.less	small byte values
sort byte more	byte	*.more	large byte values
sort len  less	byte	*.less	small part length
sort len  more	byte	*.more	large part length
sort part back	byte	*.back	last  part
sort part same	byte	*.same	first part
.TE

.SH SELECTION METHOD
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make	output\fR
sort want entire	sort	*.entire	all      parts
sort want repeat	sort	*.repeat	repeated parts once
sort want single	sort	*.single	all      parts once
sort want unique	sort	*.unique	repeated parts never
.TE

.SH SORT MODIFIER
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make	task\fR
sort ambit	sort	*.ambit	The single ambit value set.
sort free	sort	*.free	If 1 the unsorted RAM free.
sort pre	sort	*.pre	If 1 presort.
sort smp	sort	*.smp	If 1 all affine cores use.
.TE

.SH SUB VAR DEFAULTS
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBmethod	pre default	smp default	free default\fR
sort byte less	1	1	0
sort byte more	1	1	0
sort len  less	0	1	0
sort len  more	0	1	0
sort part back	0	0	0
sort part same	0	0	0
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io,	sort
name		A,	byte,	scope
sort byte less
origin	A	`/tmp/lines.txt\\0`,	io load

target		A.less
sort want entire

## For strings
#sort ambit
#target origin	A.less.ambit		`\\0`,=

target		A.less.entire
target origin	`/tmp/sorted.txt`	A.less.entire
io save
go		'savefail'
\fR
.in

.SH KSORT METHOD
.EX
By        Kyle Sallee the sort    method was  created.
Something similar     if  desired merge  sort suffices.
The       Kyle Sallee's   sort    method copy liberty
IS DENIED!

.SH LIMITS
.EX
Less      than   1 gigabyte RAM   can be sorted.
No   more than 256 million  parts can be sorted.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   sort was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript sort
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
