.TH "ascript contribute" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript contribute

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2021 copyrighted.

.SH SELF
.EX
Kyle Sallee    will      either  be
in the freedom living    happily,
in the paydom  homeless, in pain, and ill, or dead.

To the freedom unless invited what others have I do not want.

Slave script is not desired.
For slave produced goods
for slave produced services
the purchase is not desired.
By  my effort, by my life the paydom will NOT be sustained!

.SH CONTRIBUTE
.EX
ascript is Kyle Sallee's artwork.
Contributing to it would be like contributing to
an existing painting or an existing music composure.
Do not defile!

To contribute
artwork  create  with others    sans payment demand freely share.
Ascript  argot   and  scripts   are  not     required.
Anything can     be   created   and  freely  shared.
Food     can     be   grown     and  freely  shared.
Food     should  be   free!
Giving   when    done           the  freedom expands.
Some     persons call that, "pay it forward."

.SH THREAT
.EX
Lethal deprivation when threatened  even  when inflicted do not comply!
When   compliant        enslavement lasts many lifetimes.
Be     free,            die free,   be    born free!

.SH GIVE
.EX
Every person when giving
every person is   receiving!

.SH FREE
.EX
Free   means   compliance and  payment are not demanded.
Always keep    ascript    free as the  ascript software author,
Kyle   Sallee, intended!

Slaves        if wanted
payment would be demanded or
ascript would be sold.
But     the      POSIX    called  Sorcerer was  not    sold.
The     hacker   language ascript          will not be sold.

.SH FOR THE RECORD
.EX
Sorcerer     was a  5 year project.
Upon request to    15 years was extended.
And due to an illness by Kyle Sallee could no longer be continued.

Strength, walking,   memory, concentration, and hacking ability
to regain priorities shifted.
Some      ability    while   regained
chronic   back pain  still   persists.

According to  Arizona
being stupid,
unable    to walk,
unable    to sit comfortably in a chair,
and  anguished are not disabilities.
Oh   and losing 2 inches in height also was dismissed.
They probably assumed that I was always short, stupid, weak.

The medical  monopolists could not even diagnose it.
By  Arizona  my living   expenses  were not paid.
But at least SNAP was    continued and  I   could eat.

Since 2016 in my sister's unused apartment I lived.
But she wants to sell it.  So I will be homeless.

For ascript and my 3 books the required completion duration was not granted.
But that is okay.  I did what I could in very little duration.
From 2015 to 2021 approximately some of my ability was regained
3 hacker languages were created, 3 books were created.
Bang and bang 2 languages will not be shared, but ascript will.
Yeah, ascript is like 4th generation quality, performance.
And ascript performs faster than any language I have ever used!
That is a better recovery than initially anticipated.

The project completion while happily anticipated was also dreaded.
Copyrighting, publishing, and advertising it
are   the final lines on my bucket list.
There is nothing more I want from or in the paydom.
Rather than being a wealthy slave I accomplished, gave, and am pleased.

Afore  partial  recovery the ambitions did not even exist.
From   ambition recovery was motivated.
A      pully    sled, stationary bike, vitamin D3, and chalk also helped.

From   too    much    chalk kidney stones  were probably solicited.
Kidney stones hurt,   but   not as much    as a compound fractured arm,
but    more   intensely     than   chronic pain.
When   I      was     4     years  old     my arm broke.

Never  drank  mother's      milk!
So     my     bones   and   allergies might be as anticipated?

Time and help permitting   I   will reach the freedom in this life.
If   not well nobody lives     forever.
The  journey  counts not   the destination.
In   the next life         I   will certainly arrive.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
