.TH "ascript student teaching" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript student teaching

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH LICENSE COMPLIANCE IS REQUIRED
.EX
From students fees can NOT be collected.
A fee for meals, residency, tuition, etc...
can not be demanded can not be collected.
A fee for books, for computers, for software, etc...
can not be collected can not be demanded.

Any fee payment when collected
to ascript use a cost would become attached.
By the license to ascript cost attachment is prohibited.
To the paydom ascript must not be exported.

.SH CAN THE TEACHER BE PAID?
.EX
The teacher can be paid.
From the students to pay the teacher a fee
can not be collected.

.SH REQUIRED MATERIALS
.EX
The students required resources
the instructor is not obligated to provide.

For course completion for sale only goods,
such as books, can not be required, because
to the ascript use a cost would become attached.

Any book if required,
"Linux From Scratch," would probably suffice.
"Linux From Scratch," is a free publication.

.SH COMPUTERS
.EX
Personal computer use if required
almost any 21st century computer will suffice.
1 gigabyte  RAM at least must be installed.
4 gigabytes RAM is recommended.
A half terabyte fixed disk  can suffice.
2 full terabyte fixed disks are recommended.
An Internet connection is required.

A 80686 compatible CPU can suffice.
A long mode x86_64 CPU is recommended.
By begging a 2 decade old computer can be acquired.

Because ascript is absurdly fast
the CPU frequency and RAM speed is not salient.

.SH ASCRIPT PURPOSE
.EX
Computers to boot, to shutdown, to hibernate
and software to install, remove and update
the ascript utility was written.

.SH TEACHER REQUIREMENTS
.EX
For instructor competency
one free POSIX must be self authored and freely shared
and updated for at least a year.

By Kyle Sallee, for example, the POSIX called Sorcerer
was created and updated and freely shared for 15 years.
Later the POSIX called Pellucid POSIX was created,
but not shared.
Pellucid POSIX if shared would not further Kyle Sallee's goals.
By Kyle Sallee everything required is already known.

The Linux kernel configuration process
if not known the lore does not suffice.
The importance of libraries such as C and ncurses
if not known the lore does not suffice.
About a 1000 software projects must be learned and mastered.

The C language and asm language should also be mastered.
1 year writing and publishing ascript scripts
is minimally acceptable, but short of 5 years
mastery will not become.

.SH INSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
.EX
Student testing is pure folly!
Students should never be tested!

The goal, since obvious, a POSIX creation,
the required scripts when authored and tested
the progress can be measured.

A closed book test is pure folly!
The purpose of learning is not flaky memorization.
The purpose of learning is accomplishment.

Memorizing a dictionary or encyclopedia is
not nearly as important as knowing how to effectively
search and glean the task completion required knowledge.

At all times the complete uncensored ascript manual pages use
to students must be allowed.

.SH DURATION
.EX
For student task completion,
a free POSIX self created and freely shared,
a duration can not be imposed.

Among the employer and teacher a contract might    exist.
Among the student  and teacher a contract does not exist.

The teacher while encouraged to answer student questions
is not obligated to do so.

For this reason with interaction the courtesy epitome
is recommended.

.SH TRAINING COMPLETION
.EX
By the student only about the student's training
the successful completion can be decided.

The freely shared POSIX while not published
the student's competency as an ascript script hacker and
as a possible ascript instructor
is not established.

The instructor can not pass nor fail the student.
The instructor's purpose is to answer questions
and to guide effort towards the destination.

.SH FAILURE
.EX
A standardized education when endured
the required tenacity is not honed.

To success upon the journey
failures and milestones          are tantamount.
A 1000 mile    journey           is  epic.
A 1000 failure journey           is  epic.
Upon completion the satisfaction is  epic.
For many minds the required tenacity is lacking.

The ascript language to create and implement
for 6 years failures and success became.
And several complete rewrites became.
The duration while constricted
the tenacity was never lacking.

No person is a failure!
Those who discontinue ascript study are NOT failures!
Other studies could better suit a person's proclivities.

At any time ascript study can be resumed.
Until dead, the previously traveled path can again be tread.

A person's comprehension and learning skill when honed
the effort and duration was not wasted.
From every failure something important can be learned.

A future as an elite tennis athlete while not forebode
from the exercise better health could result.
A future as an elite body builder while not forebode
from weight lifting performance in other sports could improve.
From Bujinkan taijutsu training
the break fall ability when attained
some broken bone opportunities might be precluded.
The point is quite simple.
From the effort and duration spent other benefits become!

Computer hacking is not easy.
The in zone concentration with flash memorization ability is absurd.
The in zone ability when not attained when not sustained
to confusion the mind will succumb.
But still from a bit of brain strain
one's academic ability can improve.

Thus as a positive event
failure should be regarded.

.SH CERTIFICATION
.EX
The student upon training completion
a certification, degree, diploma, or some other nonsense
can not be accorded.
The freely shared freely downloadable POSIX is the student's proof!

By the license
Kyle Sallee only is the ascript certification authority.
By Kyle Sallee ascript certification is not being provided.
Certification exists for one reason only.
Certification exists to fleece noobs!

What a person claims to know is not nearly as important
as what a person accomplishes and freely shares.
Lip service and deeds entirely differ!

.SH COOPERATION
.EX
Among students cooperation while encouraged
the same scripts when authored
plagiarism will be expected.
For task completion each student's ascript scripts
must be self authored and not copied.

.SH ARGOT HACKING
.EX
By students ascript argots when created
the self authored argot also
should be published and freely shared.

For goal completion ascript argot creation is not required.
Argot creation is a C hacking specialty.

A C program a C library and an ascript argot differ.
For that reason by a C hacker an ascript argot
sans study can not be authored.
For argot creation additional ascript lore is required.

For POSIX creation the C hacking ability is useful,
because most free software releases are buggy and sans patches
a small portion of essential software projects will not compile.

.SH Kyle Sallee's PAST
.EX
The POSIX called Sorcerer afore creating
in many computer languages Kyle Sallee was fluent.
A verbose boast is not required.
The most important languages were asm and C.
Afore the C language 8086 asm was learned.
The 8086 asm language from learning
the C language comprehension was extraordinary.

The Sorcerer POSIX when began
in the BASH language Kyle was a noob.
For this reason by ascript noobs also
a POSIX can be created.

Unlike the BASH language;
by ascript all the required utility tasks,
by ascript argot are provided.
However, for some tasks, like a boot loader,
software compilation, linking, etc...
other dedicated software projects will be required.

.SH EXPECTED LIMITATIONS
.EX
For the bootloader grub or syslinux projects might suffice.
For compilation the GNU compiler collection  could suffice.
For ascript use, a Linux kernel since required,
do not expect an operating system with a non Linux kernel
can be used.

For ascript porting the mmap and mremap kernel support is required.
By proprietary commercial operating systems
the required liberty is probably not provided.

By ascript little endian and big endian CPUs while supported
other endian CPUs might not suffice.

.SH BOGUS TITLES
.EX
Computers hacking and science entirely differs!
Computer  hacking is a language skill, like English and French.
Computer  hacking and poetry composition are similar.
The main difference follows.
With computers the hacker   flawless composition   is expected.
With humans    the reader's flawless comprehension is expected.

From a computer science degree, bachelors, masters, doctorate, etc...
nothing about ascript competency can be assumed.

As part of such programs ascript competency must not be required.
Ascript competency if required
to ascript a cost would become attached.

.SH LAWSUIT RISK
.EX
By a noob mind fleecing institution,
like a college or university,
an ascript course when offered
unwanted attention will be solicited.
To ascript instruction
to ascript use
a fee if attached
book purchase if required
criminal prosecution and lawsuits will be solicited.
At any time Kyle Sallee or a delegate
sans prior notification can appear in the class and audit it.
Any action to exclude or remove this person will preclude
that person's liberty and can solicit a lawsuit.

.SH INCOMPETENCY AND FRAUD PLEASE REPORT
.EX
An ascript instructors incompetency when suspected
Kyle Sallee, please contact.

For ascript instruction participation
any payment if required
fraud was committed.
Please prosecute.
Please contact Kyle Sallee.
A defrauded person has standing.
And Kyle Sallee    has standing.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript                 was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; ascript student testing was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
