.TH "ascript top" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript top

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lllll.
\fBargot	host	make	type	use\fR
top	byte			Topological sort sub var make.
top	byte	*.top   	top	Ordered data         request.
		*.top.ambit	ambit	Ambit   UTF-8 values select.
		*.top.fail	byte	Errors               report.
		*.top.part	byte	Output topic parting bytes set.
.TE
.in

.in -8
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	target	origin	use\fR
top ambit	top	ambit	The ambit var associate.
top new 	top		When next required
        			the  ordered topic list is regenerated.
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.in -8
.TS
ll.
\fBvar	default value\fR
*.top.ambit	line feed, tab, byte value 0
*.top.part	line feed
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH SKIP
.EX
The next argot is not skipped.

.SH FAILURE
.EX
In  *.top.fail the salient information is  provided.
The          errno   value and
the metadata success value to          are set.

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io

name		A,	byte,	scope,	top
origin		`one	two	`,+
origin		`two	three	`,+
origin		`three	four	`,+
origin		`banana	banana	`,+
origin		`four	five	five	six	six	seven	`,+
out now		A.top
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE COMMENTS
.EX
Since paired,  but not positioned
into  any position the banana can slip.

.SH TERSE
.EX
A topological sort is performed.

.SH LIST GENERATION
.EX
The *.top content when copied the ordered list is generated.

.SH COMMON MISTAKE
.EX
Recursive requirement is a common mistake:
A	B	B 	C	C 	A	

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript          was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   top sort was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript list
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
