.TH "ascript err" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript err

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	target	task\fR
err go		At  errno text  near  label resume.
err pin		At  errno text  near  label visit.
err no		To  zero  the   errno value set.
err no from success	var	The errno value set.
success from err no	var	The errno value store.
err sans		The errno value is 0 and  skip.
err with		The errno value is 0 or   skip.
err var		The named errno var  with value make.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBvar	compat	use\fR
errno	int	The most recent error number value is provided.
errtext	byte	The most recent error number text  is provided.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH NAMES
.EX
For each valid errno value a name exists.
0=	'ESUCCESS'
1=	'EPERM'
2=	'ENOENT'
\&...
0<	'EANY'

.SH RATHER THAN VALUE
.EX
Rather than
the    errno value
as     a     near label
the    errno name is used.

.SH THE errno ENUMERATED NAMES ARE NEAR TARGETS
.EX
The  argot err go
the  argot err pin
when invoked   as a   direct parameter
a    label     is not provided.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript     was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   err was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
less /usr/include64/asm-generic/errno.h
less /usr/include64/asm-generic/errno-base.h
less /usr/share/man/man3/errno.3
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript a
man 3 ascript err go
man 3 ascript err pin
man 3 ascript io
man 3 errno
man 3 ascript trek
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
