.TH "ascript stat" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript stat

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
llllll.
\fBargot   	host	make    	out	sub var task	set\fR

stat dub    	dub	*.statdub     		fstat
stat reg    	byte	*.statreg     		stat
stat sym    	byte	*.statsym     		lstat
stat get				Data acquire.

stat dev  	stat	*.dev    	dex8	dev_t
stat dev major	stat	*.dev.major	dex4	dev_t
stat dev minor	stat	*.dev.minor	dex4	dev_t
stat gid  	stat	*.gid    	den8	GID     	set
stat blksize	stat	*.blksize	dex4	block size
stat blocks	stat	*.blocks 	den8	block amount
stat ino  	stat	*.ino    	dex8	ino
stat mode  	stat	*.mode   	oct4	mode    	set
stat nlink	stat	*.nlink  	den4	link  amount
stat rdev  	stat	*.rdev   	dex8	dev_t
stat rdev major	stat	*.rdev.major	dex4	dev_t
stat rdev minor	stat	*.rdev.minor	dex4	dev_t
stat size 	stat	*.size   	den8	file  size	set
stat type 	stat	*.type       	byte	node type
stat uid  	stat	*.uid   	den8	UID     	set

stat atim sec	stat	*.atim.sec	den8	access time	set
stat atim nano	stat	*.atim.nano	nano	access time	set
stat mtim sec	stat	*.mtim.sec	den8	modify time	set
stat mtim nano	stat	*.mtim.nano	nano	modify time	set
stat ctim sec	stat	*.ctim.secd	den8	change time
stat ctim nano	stat	*.ctim.nano	nano	change time

\fBargot   		require\fR
UTIME_NOW		*.nano		current time use
UTIME_OMIT		*.nano		old     time keep
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

In   the host  column the word stat when specified
from the argot stat dub
from the argot stat reg
from the argot stat sym
the  made var suffices.

.SH FAILURE
.EX
The argot stat  get  when invoked
in  the   type  stat var  metadata as success
the errno value is   stored.

.SH *.type POSSIBLE VALUES
.EX
.TS
l.
block
char
dir
fifo
file
link
sock
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH var *.?tim.* MODIFICATION
.EX
For *.atim.sec for *.atim.nano for *.mtim.sec for *.mtim.nano
the value to change the argot  equal please invoke.
The node  to change the argot  set   please invoke.
For nodes    access and modify times are    concurrently updated.

.SH EXAMPLE 0
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
stat

name		A
byte
scope
set		`/tmp/file.txt\\0`
stat reg
target		A.statreg
stat size
stat get
success
go		'failed'
io
out now		`For pathname `		A		\\
		` the size is `		A.statreg.size	`\\n`
\fR
.in

.SH HOST VAR
.EX
For stat dub              a type dub  host var suffices.
For stat reg for stat sym a type byte host var suffices.

.SH PRIMARY SUB VAR NAME
.EX
The primary sub  var name since varied.
for the     host var
the         stat and
the        lstat data can be acquired.

.SH SECONDARY SUB VAR
.EX
By  the primary   sub var all the      stat information is acquired.
By  the secondary sub var the specific stat information is provided.

.SH WHICH ONE?
.EX
For symbolic link        stat information the argot stat sym invoke.
For symbolic link object stat information the argot stat reg invoke.
For a        dub         stat information the argot stat dub invoke.

.SH RATIONALE
.EX
The  C paradigm is visible.
The  stat provided information
when individually  acquired
more opcodes must  execute.

.SH .rdev
.EX
For block special node
for char  special node
by .rdev  a       kernel device is referenced.

.SH SPECIAL NODE STORAGE
.EX
In  /dev/ special nodes most often exist.
By  the   file    /usr/src/linux/Documentation/devices.txt
the       special node  names are described.

.SH NODE REVISION
.EX
*.gid *.mode *.size *.uid when revised
the referenced node       is   modified.

.SH ARGOT NODE LIST CAVEAT
.EX
From argot node list a pathname when acquired
the  .most or .full often suffice.

.SH NODE TYPE CHECK
.EX
For node  type  check to  a  composite label go or pin is recommended.
By  argot tag a label can be composited.

.SH COMPARISON
.EX
Among nodes node for stat information comparison
the   argot yay  might be useful.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   stat was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 stat
man 3 ascript node
man 3 ascript node sub
man 3 ascript statvfs
man 3 ascript yay
man 3 utimensat
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
