.TH "ascript a" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript a

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT HOSTS
.EX
.in -8
.TS
l.
keep cite
re
.TE

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
ll.
\fBargot	task\fR

origin	Parameter to var address origin set.
target	Parameter to var address target set.

origin none	NULL address set.
target none	NULL address set.

origin push	The  opcode ret when executed restore.
target push	The  opcode ret when executed restore.

name	Parameter to var reference target set.

exist	Target name to var translate.  Pass and skip.
resolve	Target name to var translate.  Fail and segfault.

scope\
	The target var is   saved.
	The opcode ret when executed
	the saved  var is   recycled.
scope same\
	The origin var when recycled
	the target var is   recycled.

target host	For target var the host select.
origin host	For origin var the host select.

target copy	By origin the target address copy.
origin copy	By target the origin address copy.
target origin swap	Addresses exchange.

to origin	To origin the target address is copied.
to target	To target the origin address is copied.

yay origin	Not null and skip.
nay origin	Is  null and skip.
yay target	Not null and skip.
nay target	is  null and skip.

skip	Next   argot skip.
call	Opcode call  execute.
	Next   argot interpret.
next	Next   argot interpret.
ret	Opcode ret   execute.

lax	The next argot unoptimize.

success	The target var success byte is 0 and skip.
failure	The target var success byte is 0 or  skip.

success set	The target var success byte to 0 set.
failure set	The target var success byte to 1 set.

chdir	As  a        direct     parameter
	the pathname or
	the pathname containing byte compat var is required.
	The current  dir                        is changed.
	Or  the      errno      value           is set.
.TE

.TS
lll.
\fBargot	direct	task\fR

go	"far"	The label reach.
go	'near'	The label reach.

pin	"far"	The label visit.
pin	'near'	The label visit.

loop	var	On ret repeat.

zygote parse	pathname	The zygote parse     and skip.
zygote parse pin	pathname	The zygote parse pin and skip.
.TE

.TS
l.
\fBHOSTED OPERATOR ARGOT\fR
add
add add
and
at
div
equal
equal equal
less
less equal
mod
more
more equal
mul
not
not equal
or
query
set
sub
sub sub
xor
.TE
.in
.ta T 8n

.SH OPERATOR ARGOT
.EX
An  operator argot when invoked
the target   var   type appropriate opcode sequence executes.

.SH UNCERTAIN VAR ADDRESS DISCOVERY
.EX
A   var   name      when surmised
the var   existence when uncertain
the argot exist     when invoked
the var   address   is   attained and
the next  argot     is   skipped.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript   was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; argot   a was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript a
man 3 ascript go
man 3 ascript keep cite
man 3 ascript lax
man 3 ascript loop
man 3 ascript pin
man 3 ascript re
man 3 ascript scope
man 3 ascript success
man 3 ascript trek
man 3 ascript yay
man 3 ascript zygote parse
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript tutorial 1
man 7 ascript
\fR
