.TH "ascript keep cite" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript keep cite

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH HOST METHOD
.EX
The host   argot a         aft invocation
the hosted argot keep cite is  available.
the host   argot keep cite aft invocation
the hosted argot           are available.

.SH TASK: ARGOT * keep *
.EX
The  opcode ret until   execution
in   a slot the address is stored.

.SH TASK: ARGOT * cite *
.EX
From the slot the address is acquired.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
l.
\fBargot\fR
origin keep 0
origin keep 1
origin keep 2
origin keep 3
origin keep 4
origin keep 5
origin keep 6
origin keep 7

origin cite 0
origin cite 1
origin cite 2
origin cite 3
origin cite 4
origin cite 5
origin cite 6
origin cite 7

target keep 0
target keep 1
target keep 2
target keep 3
target keep 4
target keep 5
target keep 6
target keep 7

target cite 0
target cite 1
target cite 2
target cite 3
target cite 4
target cite 5
target cite 6
target cite 7
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH SLOW: ARGOT * origin *
.EX
Many opcodes must execute.

.SH SLOW: ARGOT * target *
.EX
Many opcodes must execute.

.SH SLOW: ARGOT * keep *
.EX
Many opcodes must execute.

.SH FAST: ARGOT * cite *
.EX
few  opcodes must execute.

.SH COMPARE
.EX
With argot target
with argot origin   as compared
the  argot * cite * is faster.

.SH WHEN
.EX
Within loops the argot * cite *
when   invoked
better performance becomes.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript           was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; argot   keep cite was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript a
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
