.TH "ascript sire" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript sire

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
lllll.
\fBargot	host	make	compat	use\fR
sire		*	int	PID         var make.
		*.done	int	completion  var make.
		*.exit	int	exit   byte var make.
		*.stop	int	stop        var make.

sire done	int	*.done	int	Completion indicate.
sire exit	int	*.exit	int	Exit byte  provide.
sire stop	int	*.stop	int	Stop       indicate.
.TE

.TS
lll.
\fBargot	target	use\fR
sire cont	*.done or *.stop or *.wait	SIGCONT      send.
sire stop	*.done or *.stop or *.wait	SIGSTOP      send.
sire cont wait	*.done or *.stop or *.wait	Continuation await.
sire stop wait	*.done or *.stop or *.wait	Stop         await.
sire done wait	*.done or *.stop or *.wait	Completion   await.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH TACIT LOAD
.EX
The argot exe      when loaded
the argot exe fast when loaded
the argot sire     is   loads.

.SH DEFAULT PID VALUE
.EX
The argot sire when invoked
the most  recently  created process identifier
is  selected.

.SH PROCESS 0
.EX
The PID     when      0
the current process   or
all progeny processes are selected.

.SH TACITLY UPDATED
.EX
The *.done *.exit *.stop when accessed the value is acquired.

.SH EXISTENCE CHECK
.EX
For process   existence    checking
to  the       PID signal 0 can be sent.
The dir /proc/PID also     can be checked.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   sire was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript exe
man 3 ascript exe fast
man 3 ascript sig
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript\fR
