.TH "ascript argot" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript argot

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH ARGOT AUTHORSHIP
.EX
One's own argot only  can     be copied!

.SH ARGOT NAME
.EX
Official  argot names can not be used!

.SH DISTRIBUTION
.EX
Ascript and self authored argot must be separately distributed.

.SH ARGOT NAME
.EX
A 16 byte limit exists.

.SH INITIALIZATION AND CLEANUP
.EX
One or two  __attribute__((constructor)) functions are allowed.
One or zero __attribute__((destructor))  functions are allowed.

.SH RAM USE
.EX
Address space    when      not  immediately useful
the     function madvise   with parameter   MADV_DONTNEED
is      strongly suggested.

.SH PLT/GOT USE
.EX
PLT/GOT use should           be avoided.
Static  var creation  while     permissible
global  var creation  should be abstained.
All         functions should be static.

.SH WHY
.EX
Because Kyle knows best!
To discover why 1000 argot write and deprecate.

.SH NO STREAM!
.EX
The C library provided buffered streams must NOT be used.
From the 1984 movie "Ghostbusters," Egon,
"Don't cross the streams.  It would be bad."

.SH CALLOC MALLOC PROHIBITION
.EX
The function calloc
the function malloc
the function posix_memalign
the function realloc        must NOT be invoked!

.SH C TRASH USE EXCEPTION
.EX
To        release   memory
the       function  free      invocation
when      required  is        permitted.

.SH FUNCTION MMAP AND MREMAP
.EX
The function mmap
the function mremap learn and use!

.SH ARGOT EXAMPLE
.EX
The  program        curl when    executed
the  performance tanks.
An   argot named    curl                   can be written.
With the         libcurl library the argot can be linked.

.SH ARGOT OFFICIALIZATION
.EX
To Kyle other people's source code and scripts look like garbage.
Seemingly stinky text is discarded.

.SH WILL KYLE FIX MY ARGOT?
.EX
No Kyle will not!

.SH WILL KYLE FIX MY SCRIPT?
.EX
No Kyle will not!

.SH WILL KYLE RESEARCH MY PROBLEM?
.EX
No Kyle will not.

.SH WILL KYLE ANSWER MY QUESTIONS?
.EX
If politely asked then perhaps.

.SH REGARD
.EX
In the past    to  all people the best regard was     offered.
In the present for all people the best regard must be earned.

.SH EMAIL
.EX
In the past    email and list membership was not blocked.
In the present email and list membership can be  blocked.

.SH ARGOT ARE ELF LSB SHARED OBJECTS BUT NOT LIBRARIES
.EX
The argot SO      name           must       be proper.
The argot install location       must       be proper.
By  argot the   C library        should not be linked.
Required          libraries only can        be linked.

.SH ARGOT DO NOT RET
.EX
Most             argot do  not ret.
To the next      argot address or
to the next next argot address
the instruction  pointer  must be set.

.SH ARGOT NAME
.EX
Argot name must be properly registered.
In file head/aaa.h the method with examples is documented.

.SH ELF LSB SO ENCAPSULATED
.EX
The argot are ELF LSB SO encapsulated.
The proper libascript.so.*.* if loaded
the proper argot ELF LSB SO can load.
For each   architecture supported appropriate ELFs are required.

.SH ARGOT SELF OPTIMIZATION
.EX
On   first     invocation more  opodes  often execute.
The  script    part       address       please set.
When next      invoked    less  opcodes will  execute.
When negligent 20         extra opcodes       execute!

.SH PROGRAM objdump -x
.EX
In   the    argot opcode sequence start
many opcode push      if contained
the  local  var   use is sub optimal.
Fix  it!

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript argot
man 7 ascript
\fR
