.TH "ascript list" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript list

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make	compat\fR
list    	byte	*.list	list
        	top	*.list.ambit

list entire	*.list	*.entire	byte
list single	*.list	*.single	byte
list unique	*.list	*.unique	byte
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	target	origin	task\fR
list new	*.list		From the host var
			the ordered list regenerate.
list ambit	*.list	ambit	The var associate
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH VAR TABLE
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lll.
\fBvar	topics	use\fR
*.list      		An     ordered            list   is  stored.
*.list.ambit		Topic  separation Unicode values are stored.
*.entire    		Topics ordered    sub     list   is  provided.
*.single	once	Topics ordered    sub     list   is  provided.
*.unique	once	Topics unknown                   are provided.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.TS
ll.
\fBvar	default value\fR
*.list.ambit	byte value 0, tab, line feed
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH WHAT IS ONCE?
.EX
By  *.entire
by  *.single the  ordered topics sub list is provided.
In  *.single once only  a topic  can exist.

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io
name		B,	byte,	scope
origin		`five\\n`,+
origin		`three\\n`,+
origin		`three\\n`,+
origin		`one\\n`,+
origin		`banana\\n`,+

name		A,	byte,	scope,	top
origin		`one	two	`,+
origin		`two	three	`,+
origin		`three	four	`,+
origin		`banana	banana	`,+

target		A.top,			list
target		A.top.list,		list single

target origin	A.top.list.single	B,=
out		A.top.list.single
\fR
.in

.SH TERSE
.EX
From ordered     lists
an   ordered sub list
is   generated.

.SH UNKNOWN TOPICS CAVEAT
.EX
For  *.single
by   unknown topics
the    known topics amount
must not  be exceeded.

.SH UNKNOWN TOPIC POSITION
.EX
In  *.single
in  *.entire
at  list     start
the unknown  topics appear.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   list was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript ambit
man 3 ascript kvp
man 3 ascript link
man 3 ascript list unique
man 3 ascript ray
man 3 ascript top
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
