.TH "ascript sig winch key" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript sig winch key

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	target	task\fR
sig winch key	integer value	A sig winch key combo is set.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	self,		sig,	sig name
name		s,	sig,	scope
target object	s.pin		"action"
target object	s		SIGWINCH,=
sig restart
sig init

target		7d x,	sig winch key,	go	'fail'
target		7f x,	sig winch key,	go	'fail'
\&'again',	self pause,		go	'again'

"action"
 ...
ret
\fR
.in

.SH SUCCESS
.EX
The next argot is skipped.

.SH FAILURE
.EX
The errno value is set.
For /dev/console
the permission when insufficient
the failure    is   possible.

.SH TERSE
.EX
By  a script
the sigwinch  reception
can be        requested.
Key combos can be delegated.

.SH WHEN
.EX
At  the console
the key combo when pressed
to  the designated process
the sigwinch       signal is sent.

.SH VERBOSE
.EX
In   the Linux  key translation table
the  K_SAWPNCONSOLE sequence is set.
When pressed the    SIGWINCH is received.

.SH STATE KEYS
.EX
 100 x	  Shift
 200 x	  ALTGR
 400 x	  Control
 800 x	  Alt
1000 x	  Shift Left
2000 x	  Shift Right
4000 x	  Ctrl  left
8000 x	  Ctrl  Right

.SH COMBO
.EX
The key code value and
the desired  state keys
are added.

.SH WINDOZE KEY
.EX
125 d

.SH MENU KEY
.EX
127 d

.SH KEY CODE VALUES
.EX
127 exist.

.SH PROGRAM showkey
.EX
the  software  project kbd provided program kbd
with parameter -k when     invoked
for  the       current key press
the                    key code     displays.

.SH NO CONSENSUS
.EX
Among boards the keycodes   can   vary.
The   state      key values do    not.
the   windoze    key value  and
the   menu       key value  might not.

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
SIGWINCH is   possibly unsafe.

.SH CAD
.EX
The CAD, ctrl alt delete, key sequence when pressed
by  process 1 SIGINT can be received.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript             was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; sig winch key argot was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 ioctol_list
man 2 sigaction
man 2 sigqueue
man 3 ascript sig
man 3 ascript sig winch key
man 4 console_ioctl
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
man 7 signal
\fR
