.TH "ascript tutorial 4" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript tutorial 4

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH DEV NODE
.EX
By dev nodes a kernel provided resource is accessed.

.SH SOCKET NODES
.EX
By socket nodes inter-process communication is possible.

.SH FIFO NODES
.EX
By fifo   nodes inter-process communication is possible.

.SH DIR
.EX
By a dir nodes are contained.

.SH FILE
.EX
By a file a byte sequence is contained.

.SH SYMLINK
.EX
By a symlink some other node is referenced.

.SH FILESYSTEM
.EX
In a file system the following node types exist:
dev; dir; fifo; file; socket; symlinks.

.SH BLOCK DEVICE
.EX
By a block device a file system is backed.

.SH NODE
.EX
A node is a file system destination.

.SH NAME
.EX
In file systems for each node a name is provided.

.SH PATHNAME
.EX
By slash separated container dir names the node name when prefixed
a pathname exists.

.SH NAME EXAMPLE
.EX
ascript is a name

.SH ABSOLUTE PATHNAME EXAMPLE
.EX
/bin/ascript is an absolute pathname.

.SH RELATIVE PATHNAME
.EX
ascript/ascript
./ascript/ascript
are relative pathnames

.SH WHAT IS DOT
.EX
In a pathname by dot the current working directory is selected.

.SH WHAT IS DOT DOT
.EX
In a pathname by dot dot the above directory is selected.
somewhere/../ascript and
             ascript are tantamount.

.SH DEV PATHNAME EXAMPLE
.EX
   /dev/null is a device reference node pathname.
To /dev/null any data when written is discarded.

.SH PATHNAME USE
.EX
Access permission to gain a pathname is often provided.
Access when granted a dub is provided.
A dub a nickname a numeric reference are tantamount.

.SH ASCRIPT PATHNAME USE
.EX
The manual page "ascript dub.3" please gloss.

.SH C LIBRARY FUNCTIONS WHY NOT EMULATE?
.EX
The kernel      provided syscalls  use while  unavoidable
the C library   provided interface if         emulated
the performance tanks!

.SH PRIOR EXPERIENCE
.EX
Prior C  hacking experience if attained
some     dejavu  might         exist.
But   as much    confusion  as clarity
could be solicited.

.SH BORED OR CONFIDENT?
.EX
Bored yet?     Good.
The   tutorial pages   quit  reading.
Some  ascript  scripts start hacking.

.SH ARM CHAIR JUTSU
.EX
From arm     chair jutsu   ascript skill    does not become.
Some scripts aft   hacking the     tutorial can  be  resumed.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; ascript tutorial 4.5 was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript tutorial 5
man 5 ascript var
man 7 ascript
\fR
