.TH "ascript duct" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript duct

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fB
argot   	require 	task
        	type\fR

duct map	byte	In     var
        		the    duct content   is provided.

duct tee	byte	To     pathname; data is copied.
duct tee	dub	To     dub;      data is copied.

duct mem		Memory duct init.
duct mem    1		Memory duct init. Dub       1 save.
duct mem  0 1		Memory duct init. Dub 0 and 1 save.

duct pipe		Pipe   duct init.
duct pipe   1		Pipe   duct init. Dub       1 save.
duct pipe 0 1		Pipe   duct init. Dub 0 and 1 save.

duct tee		To     pathname
        		the    duct content           send.

duct tmp		File   duct init.
duct tmp    1		File   duct init. Dub       1 save.
duct tmp  0 1		File   duct init. Dub 0 and 1 save.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH REQUIRED RET TABLE
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBRequired ret	argot\fR
1	duct mem
1	duct pipe
1	duct tmp

2	duct mem    1
2	duct pipe   1
2	duct tmp    1

3	duct mem  0 1
3	duct pipe 0 1
3	duct tmp  0 1
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH THE ARGOT NAMES
.EX
To   the argot duct * name 0 and 1 can be appended.
When appended    the dub reference and flags are saved.
A    convenience is  provided.

.SH DUCT AND RET
.EX
The  opcode ret when executed   each time  a   different task becomes.
First,  dub 1 to dub 0 is moved and  rewound.
Second, dub 1 saved  referenced and  flags are restored.
Third,  dub 0 saved  references and  flags are restored.
Each opcode ret aft  execution  the  interpretation continues.

.SH VERBOSE
.EX
More than 7 duct types     exist.
Just      3 duct types are supported:
mem dub; unnamed pipe; tmp file.

.SH LEAKY PIPES
.EX
Pipes leak.  The syscall  read the syscall write   write
by constant  invocation   a    bit bucket  brigade becomes.
With  pipes  65536 kernel hosted   bytes  are      typical.

.SH DUB 0
.EX
From dub 0 bytes are read.

.SH DUB 1
.EX
To   dub 1 bytes are written.

.SH FULL COLLECTION REQUIRED CAVEAT
.EX
For    duct mem *
for    duct tmp *
any    data afore reading
all    data must  collected.

.SH THE ARGOT duct pipe * WHEN?
.EX
Infinite  data when output to convey
the argot pipe * is required.

.SH THE ARGOT duct tmp * WHEN?
.EX
More data than installed RAM/2 when output to convey
the  argot tmp * is required.

.SH THE ARGOT duct mem * WHEN?
.EX
For ideal performance  and for sorting tasks
the argot tmp * invocation is  recommended.

.SH EXCEPTIONS
.EX
For data decompression
the program xz
the program tar when connected
a   pipe        is   recommended.

.SH USEFULNESS
.EX
For  many  utility    programs
from dub 0 the raw    data    is acquired
to   dub 1 the cooked data    is sent.
For  ascript   argot  var use is typical.

.SH DUCT DURATION
.EX
For   inter-process communication duct use is common.
Extra duration becomes.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   duct was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript duct
man 3 ascript duct map
man 3 ascript duct mem
man 3 ascript duct pipe
man 3 ascript duct tee
man 3 ascript duct tmp
man 3 ascript dup
man 5 ascript duct
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
