.TH "ascript argot" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript argot

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH PROGRAM GLUE
.EX
A shell is program glue.

.SH ARGOT GLUE
.EX
Ascript is argot glue.

.SH ARGOT?
.EX
Argot are ELF SO encapsulated opcode sequences and data
that  are only   usable       by     ascript?

.SH ELF SO?
.EX
Executable link format shared object is a file format.

.SH ARGOT NAMES
.EX
For different   opcode  sequences different argot names exist.
An  argot name  is  16  bytes.
In  argot names the     space, byte value 20 x, is not counted.

.SH ARE ELFSO AND SHARED LIBRARIES THE SAME?
.EX
By       ELFSO library intended opcode sequences can be encapsulated.
However, ELFSO library code and argot  differs.

.SH WHAT DIFFERENCE?
.EX
A   library provided opcode sequence names are global symbols.
A   library provided opcode sequence when  complete
the opcode  ret      executes.
For argot   neither  becomes.

.SH WHY ELFSO ENCAPSULATED?
.EX
When ELFSO encapsulation
by   the C provided ld library
the  ELFSO can      be loaded.

.SH WHY LOAD ELFSO?
.EX
A smart process starts slow run slow,  learns little.
A dumb  process starts fast and learns fast.

.SH WHY ALSO ELFSO?
.EX
An  argot for libcurl use          if created
with      the libcurl library can  be linked.
The argot and libcurl would   load    together.

.SH COMPILED IN ARGOT?
.EX
Into ascript argot could   be  compiled in.
Then ascript loads smarter and slower.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
For programs  and      for shared libraries
a   different license  can exist.
By many       programs the        libraries can be used.
A  specific   program  is  not    required.

.SH ARGOT LICENSE
.EX
The argot   are     not   libraries.
By  ascript only    argot can be used.
In  argot   opcode  sequences ascript provided source code exists.
The argot   and               ascript are inseparable.
The same    license applies!

.SH ARGOT AUTHORSHIP ALTERNATIVE
.EX
Rather  than be bound by  the ascript license
a standalone program can be authored or
a standalone library can be authored.

.SH AN ARGOT FOR A STANDALONE LIBRARY
.EX
The  argot              source code and
the  standalone library source code
when separately distributed    can
be   separately licensed.

.SH ARGOT AND LIBRARY BUNDLING
.EX
An argot   and library  when    bundled when distributed together
to both    the ascript  license applies!
If bundled and sold
copyright  infringement and fraud is committed.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript argot
man 5 ascript argot authorship
man 5 ascript operator
man 5 ascript stack
man 5 ascript value
man 5 ascript var
man 7 ascript
\fR
