.TH "ascript debug" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript debug

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH ARGOT segfault WHAT?
.EX
By argot segfault a segfault handler is provided.

.SH ARGOT segfault WHY?
.EX
A segfault when encountered the script location
and a cause supposition is provided.

.SH ARGOT segfault WHERE?
.EX
In non production scripts on line 2 the argot segfault should be invoked.

.SH SEGFAULT
.EX
The  segfault manifest address and
the  segfault cause    address differ.
More often    than     not
the  cause    is       earlier.

.SH TYPO
.EX
From name to  address when resolved
the  name             when mistyped
a    segfault often   becomes.

.SH TRACE
.EX
The  segfault cause
when not      obvious
a    script   trace
can  be       useful.

.SH THE ARGOT trace
.EX
By argot  trace
a  script trace
is possible.

.SH TRACE EXCLUSIONS
.EX
A signal when handled can not be traced.

.SH TRACE COST
.EX
While tracing the performance tanks.

.SH TRACE CONCLUSION
.EX
A trace seldom properly detaches
a segfault when encountered the tracing processing
might not self terminate.

.SH TRACE CONFUSION
.EX
The   argot ret when executed
the   stack     when unwound
the   executing argot
might not   be  reported.

.SH RUNTIME BUGS
.EX
Runtime bugs are obvious and easiest to fix.

.SH COMPILE TIME BUGS
.EX
Scripts are not compiled, thus compile time bugs never become.

.SH TYPOS
.EX
From name to address a var until resolved a typo could go unnoticed.

.SH FAILED ENCLOSURE
.EX
The  back   tick
the         quote
the  double quote
when unpaired
during      parse
a    segfault
might       become.

.SH LINE FEED ENCLOSURE
.EX
With back ticks a line feed should probably not be enclosed.

.SH ASCRIPT ARGOT BUG
.EX
An argot bug while possible is improbable.
For script errors a process segfault to precluded
more opcodes must execute.

.SH ASCRIPT PERFORMANCE
.EX
The performance to preserve by argot inane checks are not performed.

.SH EXPERTS ONLY
.EX
Training wheels are not attached.
All slopes are double black diamond.

.SH AWESOME STYLE
.EX
For   script authorship an awesome style when wielded
typos and many errors are often precluded.

.SH MISSED SKIP
.EX
The   next    argot   skip when missed
an    amusing runtime bug  or   segfault
often follows.
RTFM, read those fantastic manual pages!

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript segfault
man 3 ascript trace
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
