.TH "ascript dub" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript dub

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make  	task\fR
dub file	byte	*.dub	For node sub var make.
dub mem 	byte	*.dub	For mem  sub var make.
dub shm 	byte	*.dub	For shm  sub var make.
dub tmp 	byte	*.dub	For temp sub var make.
dub name	.dub	*.name	/proc/self/fd/... sub var make

\fBargot	target	origin	task\fR
dub lock free   	.dub		Sans wait the lock free.
dub lock free late	.dub		On   ret  the lock free.
dub lock        	.dub		With wait the lock make.
dub lock now    	.dub		Sans wait the lock make.

dub sig         	.dub	sig	Signal I/O enable.

dub use         	.dub/		The dub  value when valid
                	int		the next argot skip.
.TE

.TS
lll.
\fBargot   	target	task\fR
dub end late	.dub	The opcode ret when   executed
        		the dub    is  closed/released.
dub end 	.dub	The dub    is  closed/released.

dub on exe give	.dub	O_CLOEXEC  unset and skip.
dub on exe keep	.dub	O_CLOEXEC    set and skip.
dub on use rush	.dub	O_NONBLOCK   set and skip.
dub on use wait	.dub	O_NONBLOCK unset and skip.

dub poll	.dub	The dub  events when received
        		the next argot  skip.

dub unlink	.dub	The dub  pathname    unlink.

\fBargot   	target	task\fR
O_APPEND	.dub	Logical or.
O_ASYNC 	.dub	Logical or.
O_CLOEXEC	.dub	Logical or.
O_CREAT 	.dub	Logical or.
O_DIRECT	.dub	Logical or.
O_DIRECTORY	.dub	Logical or.
O_DSYNC 	.dub	Logical or.
O_EXCL  	.dub	Logical or.
O_NOATIME	.dub	Logical or.
O_NOCTTY	.dub	Logical or.
O_NOFOLLOW	.dub	Logical or.
O_NONBLOCK	.dub	Logical or.
O_PATH  	.dub	Logical or.
O_RDONLY	.dub	Logical or.
O_RDWR  	.dub	Logical or.
O_SYNC  	.dub	Logical or.
O_TMPFILE	.dub	Logical or.
O_TRUNC 	.dub	Logical or.
O_WRONLY	.dub	Logical or.
.TE

.SH .dub OPERATORS
.EX
.in -8
.TS
box;
lll.
at	@	The dub is acquired.
.TE
.in

.SH WHAT IS A DUB?
.EX
A dub is a pathname node use permission approved numeric nickname.

.SH THE ARGOT dub poll DIRECT PARAMETERS
.EX
The millisecond timeout is  first acquired.
The events              are next  acquired.

.TS
ll.
\fBevent	task\fR
`POLLIN`	can be read.
`POLLPRI`	out-of-band can be read.
`POLLOUT`	can be written.
`POLLRDHUP`	half-open disconnected.
`POLLERR`	error exists.
`POLLHUP`	disconnected.
`POLLNVAL`	The dub reference is invalid or not open.
.TE

.SH SKIP
.EX
The  argot at
the  argot dub poll
when successful
the  next  argot is skipped.

.ta T 8n
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	dub,	err,	io
name		A,	byte,	scope,	dub file
target origin	A.dub	`/tmp/count.txt\\0`,	O_RDONLY,@,	go	'fail'
target origin	A	A.dub,			io load,	go	'fail'
out		A,				ret
\&'fail', 	err now		errtext,	ret
\fR
.in

.SH INPUT POLL EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	dub,	io
target		sip
dub poll	5000 d	`POLLIN`,	go	'slowpoke'
		out now		`Received: `	sip,	ret
\&'slowpoke',	out now		`Too slow.\\n`,		ret
\fR
.in

.SH ARGOT OPERATOR at
.EX
For argot dub file made *.dub
for argot dub shm  made *.dub
for argot dub tmp  made *.dub
the argot at       when invoked the pathname is provided.

.SH ARGOT dub unlink
.EX
The  pathname aft acquisition
by   argot    dub unlink
can  be           unlinked.
The  argot    node del could be used.

.SH ARGOT O_*
.EX
The dub afore acquisition
by  argot O_* invocation
the function open flags are requested.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript     was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   dub was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 open
man 2 poll
man 3 ascript dub
man 3 ascript dub file
man 3 ascript dub lock
man 3 ascript dub mem
man 3 ascript dub shm
man 3 ascript dub tmp
man 3 ascript io
man 3 memfd_create
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
