.TH "ascript part" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript part

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	make	compat	task\fR
part	*.part      	byte	The     part content provide.
	*.part.ambit	ambit	The     part ambit   select.
	*.part.max  	int	Total   part amount  provide.
	*.part.now  	int	Current part index   provide.
.TE

.TS
lllll.
\fBargot	must	task\fR
part find	*.part	The host  parts discover.
part next	*.part	The next  part  select.
part back	*.part	The prior part  select.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH SKIPPERS
part back
part next

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io
name		B,	byte,	scope,	part
set		`Line one\\nLine two\\nLine three\\nLine four\\n`
target		B.part.ambit,	set	`\\n`
target		B.part
part find
out		`Forward:\\n`
\&'f',	out	B.part,	part next,	skip,	go	'f'

out		`\\nBackward:\\n`,	part back,	next
\&'b',	out	B.part,	part back,	skip,	go	'b'

					out	`\\n`
target origin	B.part.now	0 x,=,	out	`At 0 `	B.part
target origin	B.part.now	2 x,=,	out	`At 2 `	B.part
target origin	B.part.now	1 x,=,	out	`At 1 `	B.part
target origin	B.part.now	3 x,=,	out	`At 3 `	B.part
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE OUTPUT
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
Forward:
Line one
Line two
Line three
Line four

Backward:
Line four
Line three
Line two
Line one

At 0 Line one
At 2 Line three
At 1 Line two
At 3 Line four
.in

.SH *.part CAVEAT
.EX
The data can be copied, but not appended.

.SH ARGOT part next
.EX
The first partition when not selected the next argot is skipped.

.SH ARGOT part back
.EX
The final partition when not selected the next argot is skipped.

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
Mass media block device storage partitions differ.

.SH ALTERNATIVE
.EX
Rather than partitions in separate var
the    data can be stored
the    var  can be linked.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; argot   part was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript byte
man 3 ascript ambit
man 3 ascript link
man 3 ascript view
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
