.TH "ascript trek" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript trek

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.EX
Script trek methods are revealed.

.SH LOOP
.EX
By argot go
by argot re *
by argot loop
looping is implemented.

.SH GO
.EX
In an argot name the word go  when contained a one way trip becomes.

.SH PIN
.EX
In an argot name the word pin when contained a round   trip becomes.

.SH SKIP
.EX
For many argot
a   fail    outcome when possible
the success outcome when attained
the next    argot   is   skipped.

.SH WEIR
.EX
The argot weir and
the argot pin
are similar.

.SH WEIR SKIP
.EX
The argot weir
on  return
the next    argot
can be      skipped.

.SH WEIR SKIP SELECTION
.EX
The argot   ret
afore       invocation
the         skip
is          selected.

.SH LABELS
.EX
For loops    a label is seldom required.
To go or pin a label is often  required.

.SH NEAR LABELS
.EX
By single quotes near labels are always enclosed.

.SH FAR LABELS
.EX
By double quotes far  labels are always enclosed.

.SH LABEL GROUPS
.EX
A far label when declared the far group changes.

.SH LABEL COMPREHENSION
.EX
Far  labels and family   names are similar.
Near labels and personal names are similar.

.SH FAR LABEL UNIQUENESS
.EX
Far labels must be unique.

.SH NEAR LABEL UNIQUENESS
.EX
Within a far group the near label names must be unique.

.SH CONTEXT CHANGE
.EX
The context when changed all CPU  registers change!
By  context      change  any loop can be interrupted.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript        was created.
In 2020; by Kyle Sallee; ascript trek.5 was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript err
man 3 ascript loop
man 3 ascript tag
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript trek
man 5 ascript loop
man 7 ascript
\fR
