.TH "ascript stack" 5

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript stack

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2017 copyrighted.

.SH STACK WHAT?
.EX
A stack is a memory area.

.SH STACK CONTENT
On a stack both addresses and data are typically stored.

.SH STACK GROWTH
.EX
Content when added the stack base address is reduced.

.SH ASCRIPT STACK USAGE
.EX
By ascript the actual CPU stack is used.

.SH STACK ORDER
.EX
The   stack content
when  appended
when  removed
the   order is reversed.

.SH OPCODE CALL
.EX
The opcode call when executed
at  an     address   execution can continue.
The script interpretation          continues.

.SH OPCODE RET
.EX
The opcode ret when executed the CPU is regained.

.SH CPU REGAIN
.EX
The CPU when regained more opcodes can execute.

.SH THE CPU WHY RELINQUISH
.EX
The CPU until regained a task can be procrastinated.

.SH GROUPED DELAYED ACTION
.EX
A  far    group
by argot  pin when reached
by opcode ret is   departed.

.SH SCOPE
.EX
The argot  scope when invoked
the opcode ret   when executed
the var          is   eliminated.

.SH CASCADE
.EX
Many split   argot can  be invoked
the  opcode  ret   when    executed
the  delayed tasks are     completed.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript       was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; ascript stack was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript a
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript argot
man 5 ascript operator
man 5 ascript stack
man 5 ascript tutorial 1
man 5 ascript var
man 7 ascript
\fR
