.TH "ascript tomoy" 5
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript tmp

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2016 copyrighted.

.SH VERBOSE
.EX
By        Mandatory Access    Control   rules,
such      as        by        TOMOYO,
/memfd:   virtual   file      system    access
can       be        blocked.

By        the       following TOMOYO    exception rules
the       problem
is        circumvented.

# The /memfd: virtual file system is weird.
# To slashes no special meaning is granted.
# None or any amount of slashes can occur.
# By Kyle Sallee in 2016 these rules were provided.

acl_group	0	file	getattr/read	/memfd:
acl_group	0	file	getattr/read	/memfd:\*
acl_group	0	file	append/write	/memfd:\*
acl_group	0	file	truncate/unlink	/memfd:\*
acl_group	0	file	getattr/read	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/
acl_group	0	file	append/write	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/
acl_group	0	file	truncate/unlink	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/
acl_group	0	file	getattr/read	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/\*
acl_group	0	file	append/write	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/\*
acl_group	0	file	truncate/unlink	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/\*

acl_group	0	file	chown/chgrp	/memfd:\*		0-0xffffffff
acl_group	0	file	chmod/create	/memfd:\*		0-0xfff
acl_group	0	file	chown/chgrp	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/	0-0xffffffff
acl_group	0	file	chmod/create	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/	0-0xfff
acl_group	0	file	chown/chgrp	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/\*	0-0xffffffff
acl_group	0	file	chmod/create	/memfd:\*/\{\*\}/\*	0-0xfff

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript               was created.
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; file ascript tomoyo.5 was created.
.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.
.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
