.TH ascript 7
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: DOM
.EX
By the suffix dom dominion, doom, law, rule is indicated.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: LIBERTY
.EX
To do as one pleases is liberty.
To do as one can afford differs.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: COST
.EX
Cost is any requirement that precludes liberty.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: PAY
.EX
Cost is attached.  For use payment is required.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: PAYMENT
.EX
The cost is satisfied.
To a person the cost is provided.

.SH NOMENCLATURE PAYDOM
.EX
The paydom is the cost attached dominion.
A cost when attached
a good, service, technology, etc... in the paydom exists.

.SH NOMENCLATURE FREE
.EX
Cost is not attached.

.SH NOMENCLATURE FREEDOM
.EX
The freedom is the cost not attached domain.
A cost when not attached
a good, service, technology, etc... in the freedom exists.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: Ascript
.EX
By Kyle Sallee designed implemented created copyrighted owned
ascript is a computer programming language.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: Ascript argot
.EX
Stand alone libraries differ.
Stand alone programs  differ.
An  ascript argot to invoke
the ascript program is required.
For that    reason
all ascript argot
regardless  of       authorship
by  the     ascript  license
are tacitly bound.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: ascript script
.EX
An ascript script and
an ascript configuration file
are tantamount.
The licensed ascript program use because required
all ascript scripts tacitly ascript licensed.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: patch
.EX
A   patch   or
a   patch   file     when applied
the project source   or
the project compiled code
is  modified.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: ascript argot officialization
.EX
For ascript use if not intended an argot would not be created.
All ascript argot can be annexed, modified and
with the official ascript software project be distributed.

.SH NOMENCLATURE ascript script officialization
.EX
For ascript use if not intended an ascript script would not be created.
All ascript script can be annexed, modified and
with the original ascript software project be distributed.

.SH NOMENCLATURE ascript patch officialization
.EX
For ascript use if not intended an ascript patch would not be created.
All ascript patches can be annexed, modified and
with the original ascript software project be distributed.

.SH NOMENCLATURE: software project source
.EX
A   software project source includes:
the data files; the documentation files; the header files;
the make files; the source files; the text files; and
the file required for compilation and execution.

For successful compilation
the installed  compiler program
the installed  make     program and
the installed  utility  programs
the installed           libraries
are separate.

.SH THE FREEDOM LICENSE
.EX
To the object creator the licensed object forever belongs.
Sans creator permission this license and the licensed object
can not be modified.

In the freedom the licensed object exists.
To the paydom  the licensed object can not be exported!

Cost can not be attached.
With the licensed object
cost attached goods
cost attached services
can  not not be bundled.

A transportation cost, shipping and handling cost,
hardware cost, media cost, download cost, etc...
do not apply can not be imposed.

The  licensed   object
when directly   required
when indirectly required
in the freedom the requiring also must exist.

The  licensed   object instruction
in the freedom also must exist.

By a book, class, video, etc... the instruction if provided
In the freedom the instruction method also must exist.

Free use with optional cash shop bundling is prohibited.
A free device to boot or to run; the licensed object
when required an optional cash shop       is prohibited.

Liberty where precluded the licensed object use also is precluded.
In banks, in court rooms, in legislator rooms,
in license acquisition buildings like department of motor vehicles,
in prisons, in sales machines, in weapons, in vending machines, etc...
the licensed object use is prohibited.

Tax     payment          can not be required.
Tariff  payment          can not be required.
License conflicting laws can not be applied.

As fraud license violation are prosecutable.

By the Liberty License only the Freedom License can be modified.

.SH THE LIBERTY LICENSE
.EX
By the Liberty License the Freedom License is inherited.

For the licensed object
the personal use              liberty is granted;
the personal use modification liberty is granted.

By   the Liberty License all modifications are tacitly licensed.
With the Liberty License
a    conflicting license can not be applied.

Any modification  if distributed must be separately distributed.
The modifications must be clearly identified as NOT the original.
By the original author alone the original object is created.

From the original Liberty   Licensed object
to an object with different license
copying is prohibited!

By the Ascript  License and
by the Beggar's License and
by the Fork     License
the    Liberty  License can be modified.

.SH BEGGAR'S LICENSE
.EX
By the Beggar's license the Liberty license is inherited.

In the paydom a person's continued existence must be purchased.
One's existence to continue for the required money
the begging liberty is sustained.
By begging cost is not attached, not demanded, not required.

The word beg, not the word donation, must be used.
An example follows, "For money I am begging."

A  benefactor  only     benefit  in the paydom must not exist.
To benefactors separate pay acquired benefits can NOT be accorded.

To benefactors, clothing, kitchen items, etc...
when given those items become sold.
A bundling violation becomes and prosecution can result.

Begging and sales do not confuse!
A within freedom good or service with
a within paydom  good or service
can not be bundled.
Criminally prosecutable fraud becomes.

.SH AUTHORITY LICENSE
.EX
The certification authority is the original creator.
By  other persons, by other organization
the     a person's competency can NOT be certified.
With written notarized permission only
on a per year basis the certification authority can be delegated.
The authority when not delegated
as a certification authority when posturing
criminal fraud becomes.

.SH WARRANTY IS NOT PROVIDED
.EX
A warranty is not provided.
By the user for all outcomes the complete liability is accepted.

.SH FORK LICENSE
.EX
For the licensed object to be copied and
a new name to be granted
from the original creator only
the written notarized permission is required.
Sans permission forking          is criminal fraud.
Sans permission project name use is criminal fraud.

To a  group
to an organization
the fork creation    permission can not be granted.
To a person only the permission can     be granted.

By the fork the origin licensed object licenses are inherited.

In forks the original licenses are sustained and unmodified.

A legal fork when approved and created
the original artwork and the new artwork can be bundled.
Separate distribution is not required.
All modifications must still be identified.

.SH THE PATCH LICENSE
.EX
A  compile error a runtime error a documentation error
to circumvent patch files can be generated.
To patch files also the Ascript License applies.

The ascript project source and patch files
must be separately distributed.
Prepatched source distribution is prohibited.

The ascript original project however can annex patches
and thus be distributed.

All patch modifications when clearly documented
the prepatched compiled software distribution is permitted.

For each modification detailed description must be provided.
By  the  compiled     package  receiver
each     modification must be explicitly accepted.

.SH ASCRIPT LICENSE
.EX
By  the ascript   License
the     Freedom   License
the     Liberty   License
the     Beggar's  License
the     Authority License
the     Fork      License
the     Patch     License
are     inherited.

By  the Ascript   License
the ascript program
all ascript argot
all ascript scripts
are bound.

All  ascript argot   can be officialized.
An   ascript argot
that should  never       be officialized must never exist.

All  ascript patches can be officialized.
An   ascript patch
that should  never       be officialized must never exist.

All  ascript scripts can be officialized.
An   ascript script
that should  never       be officialized must never exist.

By   ascript         the ascript grammar  is comprehended.
From ascript argot   the ascript language is compromised.
By   ascript scripts the ascript language is wielded.

With human    languages
a    word     when created
a    phrase   when created
to   language wielders
a    royalty  free license
is   tacitly  granted.
For  ascript  the   same is so.
An   ascript  argot  and a word   are tantamount.
An   ascript  script and a phrase are tantamount.

In   other    computer languages
a    similar  nomenclature can exist and
a    similar  meaning      can be    intended.
Among         ascript  and other languages
the  source   code   and
the  compiled opcode sequences must differ.

Among human languages,
mere words and sometimes phrases are borrowed.
An entire language is not copied.
In the United Kingdom and
in the United States English is used.
The same words with same grammar rules exist.
A few phrases and words differ.

A   10% or greater ascript argot compatibility
if  created an unauthorized fork becomes.
An  unofficial fork is fraud.
Any ascript clone violates the license and is fraud.

By the ascript software author, Kyle Sallee, only
the Ascript License can be modified.

.SH SOLO PROJECT
.EX
During development to mitigate theft a solo project existed.
From inception to release ascript was a single author project.
From no person was expertise effort or help sought.
During development no courses were taken.
By self all required lore was acquired or created.
From other software projects
the  ideas and source code were NOT copied.
Sans slave labor ascript was created.

.SH COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT
.EX
Cloning video games          is copyright infringement.
Cloning video game  gameplay is copyright infringement.

The ascript software project or
the compatibility if created
copyright infringement and fraud exist.

For ascript similar scripts
the interpretation      if possible yet
the ascript license     if denied
then copyright infringement and fraud exists.
Plagiarism is fraud and theft.

The ascript license  if unpalatable
the ascript language do not recreate.
Something better and different create!

By Kyle Sallee the following languages were not copied:
8086 assembly  language; BASH; BASIC; C; C++; Fortran;
Pascal; Perl; PHP; Python; etc...
Languages if copied pointless nonsense is inherited is inflicted.

In many dominions copyright infringement and fraud are prosecutable.
Within the paydom  deprivation is inflicted.
Within the freedom boycotting  is inflicted.

.SH SCAMMERS
.EX
Software  project scammers sometimes:
rename    software projects;
modify    source code;
modify    licenses;
sometimes solicit donations;
often     sell crap.

An ascript similar language project when discovered
to both Kyle Sallee and law enforcement agencies
please report.

In the paydom  ascript placement if desired
by Kyle Sallee, the ascript author, would have been done.
In the freedom ascript was placed.
To the paydom  export  is  prohibited.
For ascript use a payment if required
both copyright infringement and fraud is committed.

.SH LIBEL
.EX
Payment when required liberty is precluded.
By Kyle Sallee to liberty importance is accorded.
By Kyle Sallee ascript was created and freely shared.
In the freedom ascript was placed.
The    freedom to expand the ascript project is intended.

By the Ascript License
each persons' at liberty ascript use is sustained.
Thus in places where liberty is denied
the ascript use is prohibited.

By ascript misuse and
by ascript intention misrepresentation
Kyle Sallee's reputation is damaged.

The ascript project
to the paydom if exported
by use a person's liberty if denied
in addition to copyright infringement and fraud
a libel lawsuit also is solicited.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; the ascript license was created.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 5 ascript beg
man 5 ascript student teaching
man 7 ascript
\fR
