.TH "ascript exe fast" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript exe fast

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	direct	use
	parameters\fR
exe fast	PPP	Sans completion  wait execute.

exe must	int	Last completion await.
		Exit code   and value when same skip.

exe yield	PPP	In   process          execute.

\&.		Last completion await.
\&..		All  completion await.
.TE
.TA

By   PPP  as direct       parameters
the  program pathname and parameters
must      be provided.

An argot  . is actually provided.
An argot .. is actually provided.

.SH SKIP
.EX
The  argot exe fast
the  argot exe must
when successful the next argot is skipped.

.SH PROGRAM END
.EX
The  argot      exe yield
when successful in  the current process
the  ascript    program is      replaced.

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
io
out now		`one two three\\n`
exe fast	`echo\\0one\\0two\\0three\\0`,	go	'failed'
exe must	0 d,				go	'nonzeroexit'
\fR
.in

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
From parameters
more than   1000 x strings are too many;
more than 1f8000 x bytes   are too many!

.SH ARGOT exe OR ARGOT exe fast?
.EX
The argot exe fast is    fast.
The argot exe      is    flexible.
500 init  scripts  when  editing
the argot exe      seems easy.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript          was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   exe fast was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript exe
man 3 ascript exe yield
man 3 ascript sire
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
