.TH "ascript sem" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript sem

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	make	task\fR
sem		*	Named semaphore var make.

\fBargot	require	want	task\fR
sem with	target	sem	The   current semaphore save.
			The   opcode ret
			until executed
			as    current semaphore use.
.TE

.TS
lllll.
\fBargot	require	from	type	task\fR
sem close	<sem with>			The pathname  close.
sem init	<sem with>	direct	int	The initial   value set.
sem name	<sem with>	direct	byte	The pathname  associate.
sem open	<sem name>			The pathname  open.
sem post	<sem with>			The semaphore unlock.
sem try 	<sem with>			The semaphore   lock try.
sem unlink	<sem with>			The pathname  unlink.
sem wait	<sem with>			The semaphore   lock.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH ON SUCCESS SKIP
.EX
sem open
sem wait
sem try

.SH ON FAILURE ERRNO IN METADATA STORE
.EX
sem close
sem open
sem post
sem try
sem unlink
sem wait

.SH EXAMPLE SEMAPHORE CREATE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
name		S0
sem,		O_CREAT,	O_EXCL
sem with
sem name	`/sem.a.001\\0`
sem open,	go	'fail open'
sem post
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE SEMAPHORE CREATE MULTIBALL
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
name		S0,
sem,		O_CREAT,	O_EXCL
sem with
sem init	3 x
sem name	`/sem.a.001\\0`
sem open,	go	'fail open'
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE SEMAPHORE LAUNCH
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
name		S0
sem
sem with
sem name	`/sem.a.001\\0`
sem open,	go	'fail open'
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE SEMAPHORE VALUE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
name		S0
sem
sem with
sem name	`/sem.a.001\\0`
sem open,	go	'fail open'
out		`S0=`	S0	`\\n`
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE SEMAPHORE WAIT
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
name		S0
sem
sem with
sem name	`/sem.a.001\\0`
sem open,	go	'fail open'
sem wait,	go	'fail wait'
 ...
\fR
.in

.SH NAME REQUIREMENTS
.EX
Afore name start  only    a   slash must exist.
For   name length maximum 251 bytes can  exist.
The   name with   value   0   byte  must terminate.

.SH VAR SCOPE
.EX
The     type sem  var  when scoped the semaphore is closed,
however the  semaphore file remains.

.SH SEMAPHORE DEFAULT VALUE
.EX
0

.SH ARGOT sem init
.EX
0
The argot sem open afore invocation
the argot O_CREAT  and
the argot sem init when  invoked
a   different initial    value can be set.

.SH ARGOT sem post
.EX
The argot sem post  when invoked
the semaphore value increments.

.SH ARGOT sem wait
.SH ARGOT sem check
.EX
The semaphore value when not 0
the semaphore value is   decremented
and success   becomes.

.SH PERSISTENCE
.EX
Until unlinked or
until shutdown
a     POSIX named semaphore file persists.

.SH THE POSIX NAMED SEMAPHORE NAME
.EX
The  /dev/shm semaphore name
is   /dev/shm/sem.
sans the slash
with the remainder appended.

.SH OWNERSHIP MODE PERMISSION
.EX
With process   UID
with process   GID
with mode      0600
the  semaphore is initially created.

.SH .sem CONTENT
.EX
The content must not be directly changed.
The value   must not be negative.

.SH NAMED SEMAPHORE VS FUTEX
.EX
FUTEX while faster a common progenitor is required.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript     was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   sem was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript sem
man 3 sem_wait
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
man 7 sem_overview
\fR
