.TH "ascript sked" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript sked

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
ll.
\fBargot	task\fR
sked get	For the PID the scheduling is acquired and skip.
sked set	For the PID the scheduling is set      and skip.
.TE

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lll.
\fBvar	type	task\fR
sked.give	int 4	A   progeny   process     can inherit?
sked.nice	int 4	the desired   CPU portion is  selected.
sked.pid	int 4	The process   PID         is  specified.
sked.policy	byte	the scheduler type        is  selected.
sked.priority	int 4	the desired   CPU portion is  selected.
sked.deadline	int 8	the deadline  nanoseconds is  specified.
sked.period	int 8	the period    nanoseconds is  specified.
sked.runtime	int 8	the runtime   nanoseconds is  specified.
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.SH VAR SALIENCE AND VALUES
.EX
.in -8
.TS
llllll.
\fBvar	salient policy	default	min	max	non salient\fR
sked.give	all	1	0	1
sked.nice	`batch` `other`	0	-20 d	19 d	0
sked.pid	all	0	0	400000 x
sked.policy	all	`other`	`idle`	`rr`
sked.priority	`fifo` `rr`	0	1	99	0
sked.deadline	`dead`	0	0	999999999 d	0
sked.period	`dead`	0	0	999999999 d	0
sked.runtime	`dead`	0	0	999999999 d	0
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.SH AVAILABLE POLICY TYPES
.EX
`batch` `dead` `fifo` `idle` `other` `rr`

.SH EXAMPLE 0
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	sked
target origin	sked.policy	`dead`,=
target origin	sked.period	100000000 d,=
target origin	sked.deadline	 10000000 d,=
target origin	sked.runtime	  1000000 d,=
target origin	sked.give	        0 x,=
sked set,	go	'fail'
\fR
.in

.SH SKED ALTERNATIVE CONTROL GROUPS
.EX
When   not   idle
to     no    more than
1/64th processing power      to limit
the    control    groups can be used.

.SH VAR sked.pid
.EX
When 0 the current process is indicated.

.SH NICE IS NOT NICE
.EX
The   scheduler attribute nice value and
the   process             nice value
seems to        entirely  differ.

.SH SECURITY
.EX
EUID 0 and proper capability will probably be required.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   sked was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 sched_setattr
man 3 ascript self
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
man 7 sched
man 7 sched
\fR
