.TH "ascript ko" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript ko map

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH NOTES
.EX
The argot ko
the argot ko map
perform similar tasks:
hotplug;
coldplug;
on demand kernel object loading/unloading.

The argot ko map uses:
more address space;
less RAM;
less opcodes.

The argot ko map is faster,
but newer and less tested.

.SH DIFFERENCES
.EX
When loaded
by   argot ko map
all  the   kernel  object files are mapped.
To   load  modules the syscall  init_module is invoked.
The  flags:
MODULE_INIT_IGNORE_MODVERSIONS and
MODULE_INIT_IGNORE_VERMAGIC
can not be set/passed.

.SH LIMITS
.EX
As many as 256K object files can be mapped.

.SH EXPECTATION
.EX
For a workstation's
kernel object files
less than 4K typically exist.
An arbitrary limit of 256K

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBvar	type	default value\fR
ko	ko

ko.alias	byte
ko.name	byte
ko.info	byte

ko.defy.omit	int 4	0

ko.path.config	byte	`/etc/ko`
ko.path.dev	byte	`/dev`
ko.path.log	byte	`/var/log/ko`
ko.path.object	byte	`/lib/modules/((struct utsname).release)`

ko.uevent.action	byte
ko.uevent.alias	byte
ko.uevent.devname	byte
ko.uevent.major	int
ko.uevent.minor	int 4
ko.uevent.pid 	int 4
ko.uevent.raw	byte
ko.uevent.syspath	byte
ko.uevent.subsystem	byte
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	skip?	target	task\fR
ko auto	success		The uevent is     automagically  handle.
ko cold			In  /sys/devices/ and sub dir
			to  each   uevent file
			the word   add    write.
ko cram			The kernel object files map.
ko hark	success		A   kernel object uevent harking progeny process create.
ko info	success		The kernel object information    acquire.
ko live	success		The kernel object if loaded the  next argot skip.
ko load	success		The kernel object    loads.
ko oust	success		The kernel object  unloads.
ko pin		"far"	At  the    label  events are     handled.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH EXAMPLE 0 COLD BOOT
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
ko map
ko hark,	go	'fail'
ko cold

sig name
sig queue	ko.uevent.pid	SIGUSR1		1 x
next
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE 1 BARE MINIMUM
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,		ko
target origin	ko.name	`serio`,	=,	ko load,	next
target origin	ko.name	`i8042`,	=,	ko load,	next
target origin	ko.name	`libps2`,	=,	ko load,	next
target origin	ko.name	`atkbd`,	=,	ko load,	next
\fR
.in

.SH EXAMPLE 2 THE OXYMORONIC LIVE POSIX
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,		ko
target origin	ko.name	`lz4_decompress`,	=,	ko load,	next
target origin	ko.name	`lz4_compress`,		=,	ko load,	next
target origin	ko.name	`zsmalloc`,		=,	ko load,	next
target origin	ko.name	`zram`,			=,	ko load,	next
\fR
.in

.SH THE ARGOT ko pin
.EX
For uevent handling a label when not      provided
the uevent handling         is   tacitly  provided.

.SH KERNEL OBJECT MODULE NAME
.EX
A kernel object file   name and
a kernel object module name are  not the same.
A kernel object module name does not end with .ko
A kernel object file   name can  contain hyphens.
A kernel object module name has  underscore rather than hyphens.

A    kernel object file   name
to   kernel object module name
to   translate  typically:
the  prepended  directory pathname discard;
the   appended  dot    ko          discard;
with underscore the       hyphens  replace.
The  kernel object module name
can  still  differ.
The  anticipated name
as   an alias    try.
If   an alias    exists
the  kernel object module name
will be discovered.

.SH THE ARGOT ko info
.EX
The var    ko.alias    when set or
the var    ko.name     when set
the argot  ko info     when invoked
the var    ko.name
the var    ko.modinfo  are  set.

The var    ko.name     if   set is used.
The var    ko.alias    if   set is resolved and
the var    ko.name     is   set.

The kernel object      when identified
the var    ko.info     address     and length are set.
The var    ko.info     is   read  only.

The argot  ko info     when successful
the next   argot       is   skipped.

.SH CRYPTOGRAPHIC SIGNATURES
.EX
When enabled the cryptographic signatures are always checked.
When invalid the kernel object load       is  aborted.

.SH VAR ko.defy.omit /etc/ko/omit/
.EX
The var ko.defy.omit when 0
the /etc/ko/omit/ contained file   names are  checked.
The kernel                  module name  when discovered
is  not loaded.

.SH USR1
.EX
By   the uevent   daemon the signal SIGUSR1 if received
with the conveyed sival_int
the  var ko.defy.omit is set.

.SH USR2
.EX
By   the uevent   daemon the signal SIGUSR2 if received
the  kernel       object modalias   cache   is reloaded.

.SH MODALIAS
.EX
Rather than   the  pathname
rather than   the  file name
more   often  than not
the    kernel modalias is provided.

.SH MODALIAS TRANSLATION
.EX
The first matching modalias is used.

.SH THE ARGOT KO CRAM
.EX
The /lib/modules/ content by inotify could be watched, but is not.
The /lib/modules/ content    when             modified or
the var   ko.path.object     when             modified
the argot ko cram should  be invoked.

.SH THE ARGOT ko cold
.EX
In /sys/devices/ to all uevent files the sequence "add" is sent.

.SH COLDPLUG CAVEAT
.EX
Even on  SMP  systems cold plug request and handling
can  not concurrently run.
Due  to  a kernel bug events    would   be  dropped.
For  this  reason a   tiny      delay   is  implemented.

.SH UEVENT SET VAR
.EX
ko.uevent.action
ko.uevent.alias
ko.uevent.devname
ko.uevent.major
ko.uevent.minor
ko.uevent.subsystem
ko.uevent.syspath

.SH VAR ko.uevent.action VALUES
.EX
`add` `change` `move` `remove` exists.

.SH VAR ko.uevent.devname
.EX
A `/dev/` relative special device node pathname exists.

.SH VAR ko.uevent.syspath
.EX
A `/sys/` relative  pathname exists.

.SH VAR ko.uevent.major
.EX
The value 255 can be exceeded.

.SH VAR ko.uevent.minor
.EX
The value 255 is not exceeded.

.SH VAR ko.uevent.alias
.EX
A modalias string exists.

.SH VAR ko.uevent.subsystem
.EX
`bdi`   `block` `bsg` `bus`       `class` `driver`
`input` `media`       `module`
`scsi`  `scsi_device` `scsi_disk` `scsi_host`
`slab`  `sound` `usb` `vc`        `video4linux`
and other sub system names are possible.

.SH VAR ko.path.config
.EX
`/etc/ko` is default

.SH `/etc/ko/alias/`
.EX
The /etc/ko/alias/ contained file names are alias names.
Yes, even * can be embedded in a file name if escaped,
but will probably not be useful here.
The file content is a kernel object module name.
This way custom aliases can be created.
For a few custom aliases the check is reasonably fast
and thus unlike kernel objects
the alias file names and content are not mapped and indexed.

.SH `/etc/ko/omit`
.EX
For module  named   files
the modules are not loaded.

.SH `/etc/ko/para`
.EX
From module named files the kernel parameters are acquired.
By   space              the kernel parameters are separated.

.SH MODULE NAMED FILES
.EX
Module named files are not
module file  names.
Module file  names have .ko appended.
Module file  names can contain hyphen.
Module names names     replace hyphen with underscore.

.SH TACIT RECURSIVE LOAD
.EX
A         kernel object   when loaded
the       kernel object's
required  kernel objects  also load.

.SH ORDER
.EX
The ko.name  if not empty by name  the module is located.
The ko.alias if not empty by alias the module is located.

.SH `/proc/modules`
.EX
By    pathname `/proc/modules`  content
about loaded kernel objects information is provided.

.SH LOADED OBJECT CHECK
.EX
`/proc/module` content is not checked.
`/sys/module/` content is checked.

.SH THE ARGOT ko hark
.EX
The argot ko hark          when invoked
a         progeny  process is   created.
By  the   progeny  process
the       received uevent  are  handled.

.SH FIRMWARE
.EX
From /lib/firmware/ by the Linux kernel
the       firmware files as required are tacitly loaded

.SH UEVENT RECEPTION
.EX
In  RAM   the event is stored.
Aft delay the event is processed.
For each      event
a   log       file  is created.

.SH ARGOT ko auto
.EX
The event processing if  begun but too menial for completion
the argot ko auto    can be    invoked.

.SH THE ARGOT ko auto ACTION=add
.EX
The MODALIAS                 when provided
the ko.defy.omit value       when 0 or
the file `/etc/ko/omit/name` when missing
the kernel object            is   loaded.

.SH THE ARGOT ko auto ACTION=remove
.EX
The MODALIAS                 when provided
the kernel object    removal when supported
the kernel object            when not in use
the kernel object is removed.

.SH THE ARGOT ko auto ACTION=add DEFAULTS
.EX
With the MAJOR value DEVNAME node GID  is set.
To   0660 o    the   DEVNAME node mode is set.

.SH THE ARGOT ko auto ACTION=add SPECIAL CASES
.EX
/dev/null /dev/random /dev/urandom /dev/tty /dev/zero
for the above pathnames mode 0666 is set

.SH LOGGING
.EX
In  the log dir, `/var/log/ko/` with SEQNUM as pathname
the     log files are created.

.SH LOGGED SUCCESS
.EX
In  the kernel log, but not
in  the uevent log file
the success or failure is indicated.

.SH `/etc/ko/also/`
.EX
The content can be alias or modalias
The alias sound-slot-0 if requested
in  file `/etc/ko/also/sda_hda_intel` could be contained.

.SH VAR ko.path.object
.EX
The kernel object files to find
the var ko.path.object
provided dirname is recursively searched.

.SH COMPRESSED KERNEL OBJECT FILES
.EX
The  kernel object files if compressed
will not be read
will not be cached
will not be loaded!

.SH GROUP NAME CAVEATS
.EX
For each POSIX
at  an   arbitrary number
the user account   names and
the group          names can begin.

.SH RECOMMENDED NUMBER
.EX
Above 400 x   is   recommended.
For   special node GID the device major since used
for   user account name          UID values   and
the   user account default group GID values   and
the   special node GID               values   should not coincide.

.SH SECURITY CAVEAT
.EX
EUID 0 and CAP_SYS_MODULE are probably required.

.SH COMMON MISTAKES
.EX
In /etc/ko/*/     file names   hyphen         must not be contained.
In /etc/ko/also/* file content hyphen and .ko must not be contained.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript        was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   ko     was created.
In 2022; by Kyle Sallee; argot   ko map was created.

.SH WHY
.EX
Kernel   object  file indexing and
coldplug consume too  much boot duration.
The argot ko     is fast.
The argot ko map is faster!
The utilities if adequate
booting can seem as fast
as resuming from RAM suspension.
The udev also called systemd is not fast.
The argot ko map is fast.

.SH PERFORMANCE
.EX
With
the user   duration as      compared
the system duration since a magnitude greater
with /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/ recursive file total
the performance linearly scales.
On any     similar implementation
an unused  kernel  object file plethora
invariably reduces performance.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 init_module
man 2 delete_module
man 3 ascript ko
man 3 ascript mount
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
