.TH "ascript power" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript power

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lll.
\fB
argot		task\fR
power halt		Shutdown.
power reboot		Reboot.
power suspend disk		Deep  sleep.
power suspend ram		Short sleep.

\fBargot	from	parameter\fR
power resume	target	`/dev/swap_block_device_node_name`
power image size	target	In bytes
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
power
power reboot
\fR
.in

.SH SKIP
.EX
The  argot power halt
the  argot power reboot
the  argot power resume
when successful
the  entire      following script is skipped.

.SH UNCERTAIN
.EX
The argot power suspend disk
the argot power suspend ram
the success can not     be ascertained.

.SH ORDER
.EX
The  sysfs                 aft   mount
the  modules               aft   coldplug
the  encrypted device key  aft   activation
the  filesystems           afore checking
                           afore mounting
the  swap                  afore activation
from swap the suspend image
can  be       resumed.

.SH FROM SWAP FILE RESUME
.EX
From swap  file resume      is not impossible, but
by   argot power            is not supported.

.SH SWAP
.EX
A    swap  file             is not encrypted.
The  swap  partition should be     encrypted.

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
While suspended
the   attached  hardware should not be changed.
Even  USB devices        must   not be unplugged.

.SH SWAP
.EX
For    the swap system    1 gigabyte should suffice.
Afore  suspend  unessential processes
should be       terminated.

.SH GUI DISPLAY CAVEAT
.EX
Afore suspend    the graphics mode is not saved.
Afore suspend to a   text console please change.
Aft   suspend to the GUI          please resume.

.SH MEMORY CAVEAT
.EX
For the image size no more than half installed RAM is possible.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; power   was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
less /usr/src/linux/Documentation/power/interface.txt
less /usr/src/linux/Documentation/power/swsusp.txt
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript power
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
