.TH "ascript cap" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript cap

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH ARGOT CAP MADE VAR
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	from	task\fR
cap ambient add	direct	To   set capability add    and skip.
cap ambient nay	direct	In   set capability        or  skip.
cap ambient sub	direct	From set capability remove and skip
cap ambient yay	direct	In   set capability        and skip.

cap effect add	direct	To   set capability add    and skip.
cap effect nay	direct	In   set capability        or  skip.
cap effect sub	direct	From set capability remove and skip.
cap effect yay	direct	In   set capability        and skip.

cap inherit add	direct	To   set capability add    and skip.
cap inherit nay	direct	In   set capability        or  skip.
cap inherit sub	direct	From set capability remove and skip.
cap inherit yay	direct	In   set capability        and skip.

cap permit add	direct	To   set capability add    and skip.
cap permit nay	direct	In   set capability        or  skip.
cap permit sub	direct	From set capability remove and skip.
cap permit yay	direct	In   set capability        and skip.
.TE

.TS
ll.
\fBvar	use\fR
cap.pid			The PID.

CAP_AUDIT_CONTROL	Capability constant value
CAP_AUDIT_READ
CAP_AUDIT_WRITE
CAP_BLOCK_SUSPEND
CAP_CHOWN
CAP_DAC_OVERRIDE
CAP_DAC_READ_SEARCH
CAP_FOWNER
CAP_FSETID
CAP_IPC_LOCK
CAP_IPC_OWNER
CAP_KILL
CAP_LEASE
CAP_LINUX_IMMUTABLE
CAP_MAC_ADMIN
CAP_MAC_OVERRIDE
CAP_MKNOD
CAP_NET_ADMIN
CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE
CAP_NET_BROADCAST
CAP_NET_RAW
CAP_SETGID
CAP_SETFCAP
CAP_SETPCAP
CAP_SETUID
CAP_SYS_ADMIN
CAP_SYS_BOOT
CAP_SYS_CHROOT
CAP_SYS_MODULE
CAP_SYS_NICE
CAP_SYS_PACCT
CAP_SYS_PTRACE
CAP_SYS_RAWIO
CAP_SYS_RESOURCE
CAP_SYS_TIME
CAP_SYS_TTY_CONFIG
CAP_SYSLOG
CAP_WAKE_ALARM
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a
cap
cap effect sub	SYS_ADMIN
go	'fail'
\fR
.in

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
Because Tomoyo    is  superior
the     argot cap was never checked.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; cap     was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
man 7 capabilities
\fR
