.TH "ascript magic" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript magic

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2019 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
llll.
\fBargot	host	make	host reference\fR
magic byte	byte	*.magic	file content
magic dub	dub	*.magic	node reference
magic name	byte	*.magic	path name

\fBargot	host	make	provides\fR
magic all	*.magic	*.all	text  description all matches
magic apple	*.magic	*.apple	apple creator     and type
magic error	*.magic	*.error	error text
magic mime	*.magic	*.mime	mime  type
magic text	*.magic	*.text	text  description
.TE
.ta T 8n

.TS
llll.
\fBargot	target	origin	use\fR
magic load	*.magic	pathnames	Colon separated pathnames
			for   compiled  databases
			are   loaded.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH SKIP
.EX
The       argot     magic load
when      invoked
the       database  load
when      successful
the       next      argot
is        skipped.

.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
a,	io,	magic

name		A,	byte,	scope,	set	`/bin/bash\0`
magic name,	target		A.magic
magic all
magic mime
magic text
magic error
out now		A		`\\n\\n`	\\
		A.magic.all	`\\n\\n`	\\
		A.magic.mime	`\\n\\n`	\\
		A.magic.text	`\\n\\n`	\\
		A.magic.error	`\\n\\n`
\fR
.in


.SH ERRORS
.EX
From *.magic.all
from *.magic.mime
from *.magic.text
the  acquired description if ``
by   *.magic.error the error is described.

.SH LIBMAGIC FLAGS
.EX
The flag MAGIC_SYMLINK
the flag MAGIC_PRESERVE_ATIME            are tacitly set.
For *.magic.all  the flag MAGIC_CONTINUE is  tacitly set.
For *.magic.mime the flag MAGIC_MIME     is  tacitly set.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript       was created.
In 2019; by Kyle Sallee; argot   magic was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 3 ascript magic
man 3 libmagic
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
