.TH "ascript swap" 3
.SH NAME
.EX
ascript swap

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED VAR
.EX
.in -8
.TS
lll.
\fBvar	type	use\fR
swap.label 	byte	A   16 d  byte   label             specify.
swap.pathname	byte	The block device node     pathname specify.
        	byte	The swap         file     pathname specify.
swap.priority	int 4	The swap  system positive priority specify.
swap.size  	int 8	The swap  byte   file     size     specify.
swap.uuid  	byte	The swap  system          UUID  is provided.
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.in -8
.TS
ll.
\fBargot	use\fR
swap init	The swap system initialize and skip.
swap on 	The swap system activate.  and skip.
swap off	The swap system deactivate and skip.
swap prefer	The swap system prefer.
.TE
.ta T 8n
.in

.SH swap init EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	err,	io,	swap
target origin	swap.pathname	`./swap.0\\0`,	=
target origin	swap.size	1000000 x,	=
target origin	swap.label	`swap10`,	=
swap init,	go		'fail'
out		swap.uuid,	ret
'fail',		err now		errtext,	ret
\fR
.in

.SH swap on EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	swap
target origin	swap.pathname	`./swap.0\\0`,=
swap on,	go		'fail'
\fR
.in

.SH swap off EXAMPLE
.EX
.in -8
\fB
a,	swap
target origin	swap.pathname	`./swap.0\\0`,=
swap off,	go		'fail'
\fR
.in

.SH SWAP FILES
.EX
For testing only swap files are useful.

.SH SWAP SYSTEMS
.EX
For  production computers on LUKS encrypted device nodes only
swap systems    should    be      created.


.SH ARGOT swap prefer
.EX
The argot swap prefer when invoked
the swap.priority     is   tacitly set.

.SH ARGOT swap init
.EX
The swap system is initialized,
the swap.uuid   is set and
the next argot  is skipped.

.SH CAVEAT
.EX
An active swap system must NOT be initialized.

.SH ARGOT swap on
.EX
Afore invocation
the   argot swap prefer   can be invoked or
the   var   swap.priority can be set.

.SH VAR *.pathname
.EX
A    block device node or
a    swap  file   node
can  be    referenced.

.SH VAR swap.size
.EX
A   swap file only when creating
the swap.size      is   used.

.SH SWAP MANAGEMENT CONSUMES RAM
.EX
By     the active swap amount
half   installed  RAM  size
should not        be   exceeded.

.SH SNOOZE
.EX
By the  argot power for software suspend
a  swap file     is not supported.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript      was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; argot   swap was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 swapon
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
