.TH "ascript trace" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript trace

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot	optional	task\fR
trace	parameters	Desired info request.
tron		The trace is activated.
troff		The trace is deactivated.
.TE

.SH ARGOT trace OPTIONAL DIRECT PARAMETERS
.TS
ll.
\fBparameter	use\fR
`file`	The file  name     report.
`line`	The line  number   report.
`origin`	The target         report.
`name`	The argot name     report.
`para`	The argot direct   parameters report.
`part`	The part  number   report.
`skip`	Discontinuous      interpretation report.
`target`	The target         report.
`toll`	The executed opcode amount report.
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH LIMITED INFO
.EX
A  custom trace  is  not provided.
About the script process during execution
limited   information is provided.

.SH MAXIMUM INFO
.EX
For maximum info    with the program gdb
and debug   filled  ELFs
the ascript process can  be  traced.

.SH WHY?
.EX
The argot opcode     sequence is  probably correct, but
the argot invocation sequence might not be correct.
Stripped  ELFs   can be traced.

.SH EXAMPLE CURRENT
.EX
.ta T 8n
.in -8
\fB
trace	`line`	`skip`	`name`	`para`	`target`	`origin`
tron
 ...
\fR
.in

.SH DURATION CAVEAT
.EX
Process tracing is slow!

.SH CAVEAT ARGOT CHANGE
.EX
The opcode  ret   aft    execution
the current argot opcode sequence might change.
That change is    not    reported.

.SH CAVEAT COMPATIBILITY
.EX
Some argot are not trace compatible.

.SH ARGOT troff CAVEAT
.EX
The  argot troff probably does not work.
From trace start until process completion is recommended.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript       was created.
In 2017; by Kyle Sallee; argot   trace was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 1 gdb
man 2 ptrace
man 3 ascript trace
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
\fR
