.TH "ascript ns" 3

.SH NAME
.EX
ascript ns

.SH COPYRIGHT
.EX
By Kyle Sallee in 2018 copyrighted.

.SH HOSTED ARGOT
.EX
.TS
lll.
\fBargot		namespace unshare\fR
ns new cgroup		cgroup
ns new files		file descriptor table
ns new fs		filesystem attributes, root dir
ns new ipc		IPC
ns new mnt		mounts
ns new net		network
ns new pid		PIDs
ns new sem		System V semaphore
ns new user		user
ns new uts		UTS

\fBargot	target types	namespace enter\fR
ns old cgroup	byte dub	cgroup
ns old ipc	byte dub	IPC
ns old mnt	byte dub	mounts
ns old net	byte dub	network
ns old pid	byte dub	PIDs
ns old sem	byte dub	System V semaphore
ns old user	byte dub	user
ns old uts	byte dub	UTS

\fBargot		current namespace save\fR
ns save cgroup		cgroup
ns save ipc		IPC
ns save mnt		mounts
ns save net		network
ns save pid		PIDs
ns save sem		System V semaphore
ns save user		user
ns save uts		UTS
.TE
.ta T 8n

.SH SKIP
.EX
The hosted argot when invoked when successful
the next   argot is   skipped.

.SH ARGOT ns * save *
.EX
For the current namespace a dub is   acquired.
The     opcode  call            is   executed.
The             interpretation       continues.
The     opcode  ret             when executed
the     saved   namespace       is   entered.

.SH REALFS
.EX
For   each realFS the IPC NET NS UTS PID must be unshared.
Other name space,
such as cgroup
such as semaphore, can be unshared.

.SH WHERE ARE NAMESPACES?
.EX
For each process in the procfs
the name space   files  exist.
/proc/*/ns/ipc
/proc/*/ns/mnt
/proc/*/ns/net
/proc/*/ns/pid
/proc/*/ns/uts
By the PID the * replace.

.SH MOUNT BIND
.EX
A   namespace file when mount bind; aft process completion
the namespace persists.

.SH VETH
.EX
VETH   pairs   aft     creating
in the network hub net namespace and
in a   realFS      net namespace one part exists.

.SH VIRTUAL COMPUTERS
.EX
Unshared name      spaces    and
virtual  computers differ.
Unshared name      spaces
when     used
some     virtual   computing boons become
while    memory    use       is    conserved.

.SH NAME SPACE INHERITENCE
.EX
From a progenitor process
by   a progeny    process
the    namespace  are inherited.

.SH ROOT DIR
.EX
A    process  when   chrooted
from /proc/*/root
the  root dir can be acquired.
By   the  PID the *  replace.

.SH AUTHOR
.EX
In 2016; by Kyle Sallee; ascript was created.
In 2018; by Kyle Sallee; ns      was created.

.SH LICENSE
.EX
By \fBman 7 ascript\fR the license is provided.

.SH SEE ALSO
.EX
\fB
man 1 ascript
man 2 setns
man 2 unshare
man 5 ascript
man 7 ascript
man 7 namespaces
\fR
